On the side-lines of this event, I hope the delegates joining us from abroad, shall have some time to see the history and splendour of Delhi.
We are proud to be the global host for World Environment Day, 2018.
We are also committed to ensure, that we do so, in a way that is sustainable and green.
This has freed rural women from the misery of poisonous smoke.
We are engaged in a massive push towards renewable energy generation.
We are already the fifth largest producer of solar energy in the world.
Not only this, we are also the sixth largest producer of renewable energy.
We are a young Nation.
Our tree and forest cover has also increased by one percent in the last two years.
We have also done well in the field of wildlife conservation.
Continued availability of water for agriculture is of importance.
Our motto is ‘More crop, per drop.’
World Environment Day seeks to address a very significant challenge this year.
Plastic now threatens to become a menace to humanity.
Plastic pollution is now entering into our food chain.
In fact, micro plastics have now even entered basic food like salt, bottled water and tap water.
The per capita plastic consumption in India is much lower than in many parts of the developed world.
I hope they continue to do exemplary work in curbing plastic pollution.
The choices that we make today, will define our collective future.
They are currently touring different parts of India as part of the initiative “Watan Ko Jaano.”
Interacting with them, the Prime Minister spoke of the efforts being made by the Union Government to improve connectivity and infrastructure in the State.
The International Convention of Saurashtra Patel Cultural Samaj is being held in California, United States of America, this year.
Applauding the efforts of NRIs, particularly Saurashtra Patel community, Prime Minister said that NRIs have always made India proud.
He added that their efforts have ensured that Indian Passport is respected everywhere.
Prime Minister said that various schemes of the Government, like Swachh Bharat has boosted tourism in the country.
He also appealed to NRI community to motivate at least five foreign families to visit India every year for Bharat Darshan.
Prime Minister said that India would celebrate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, beginning from 2nd of October.
Initiatives like GST and strict action against corruption has helped people doing honest business.
These initiatives have resulted in 42-place jump in the Ease of Doing Business rankings in the last four years, he added.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate and lay foundation stone for various development projects in Kutch today.
They have laid down their lives for the country.
My heartfelt condolences to the families who have lost their near and dear ones in this hour of grief.
At this moment, there are expectations and the feelings of a strong response which is quite natural.
We have given full freedom to the security forces.
We have full faith in the bravery and valour of our security forces.
130 crore Indian will give a befitting reply to any such act or attack.
Our brave soldiers have laid down their lives.
He called upon the people of Pakistan to tell their rulers to fight corruption and fake notes.
The Prime Minister said that the Union Government will do everything it can, to give enough water to the farmers.
Water that belongs to India cannot be allowed to go to Pakistan, he added.
The Prime Minister tweeted that the Centre has assured all support to the Bihar government to mitigate the flood situation and that the situation is being monitored closely.
“My thoughts are with all those affected by floods in parts of Bihar.
The situation is being monitored closely.
Centre assures all support to Bihar government to mitigate the flood situation.
He complimented the people of Kashi for extending a warm welcome to French President Emmanuel Macron.
He said there is immense potential for tourism in Varanasi, and all efforts should be made to keep the city clean.
The Prime Minister said that the recently announced Ayushman Bharat scheme is going to transform the health sector.
It will provide top quality healthcare to the poor, he added.
At the outset, I wish to express our sincere condolences on the loss of life due to the recent earthquake in Aceh .
You are the Leader of a great nation.
As the world’s most populous Muslim nation Indonesia stands for democracy, diversity, pluralism, and social harmony.
These are also our values.
The Joint Statement on Maritime Cooperation outlines the agenda of our engagement in this field.
Our partnership will also extend to combating terrorism, organized crime, drugs and human trafficking.
The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for entering into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) in relation to Mutual Co-operation.
Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister said that such Unnati Melas play a key role in paving the way for New India.
He said farmers and scientists have to work together to transform agriculture.
The Prime Minister specially mentioned the State of Meghalaya, which received an award for its achievements in agriculture, in the period under review.
The Prime Minister appreciated the spirit and the hard work of our farmers, for their achievements in agriculture since independence.
He said the aim remains to double farmers’ incomes, and make the farmers’ lives easier.
Speaking about the progress towards this resolve, the Prime Minister said that more than 11 crore soil health cards have been distributed so far.
100 percent neem coating of Urea has also resulted in lowering expenditure on fertilizer, apart from raising productivity.
He said that through the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, premiums have been lowered, capping on insurance removed, and claims amounts disbursed to farmers have gone up.
He said the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana envisions water for every farm.
He said the Kisan Sampada Yojana is helping strengthen the supply chain from the farm to the market, and creating modern agriculture infrastructure.
He said Operation Greens, announced in the recent budget, will be beneficial for farmers growing fruits and vegetables, especially Tomato, Onion and Potato.
He said that the Union Government has decided that for all notified crops, MSP will be at least one and a half times the cost.
The Prime Minister also emphasized the importance of Farmer Producer Organizations.
He said the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) will play a key role in this regard.
The Prime Minister said that the Government is working to ensure that adequate Agriculture Credit is available.
Hon’ble Chairman, heartiest congratulations and good wishes on behalf of the House and on behalf of the countrymen!
Today, the 11th August, reminds us of a significant event in history.
Aspects such as human psychology and behavioural psychology should be vital parts of training, he added.
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress in implementation of the scheme for establishment of new medical colleges attached with existing district/referral hospitals.
“Saddened by the loss of lives and destruction in Indonesia caused by the Tsunami after the eruption of a volcano.
The successful launch of the South Asia Satellite marks the fulfilment of that.
With this launch we have started a journey to build the most advanced frontier of our partnership.
Space technology will touch the lives of our people in the region.
I will be meeting with President Sirisena, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe and other eminent dignitaries.
“Anguished by the tragic accident in UP’s Etah district.
This is the fourth interaction by the Prime Minister through video bridge series with various beneficiaries of Government schemes.
The Prime Minister further said that adequate capital, courage and connecting with people are required for excelling in the start- up sector.
Start-Ups have been given income tax exemption for three years.
Six labour laws and three environmental laws have been changed so that young entrepreneurs need to provide only self-certification.
Schoolchildren from various Atal Tinkering Labs shared their innovations with the Prime Minister.
Prime complemented the schoolchildren for their scientific skills and encouraged them to come up with more such inventions.
He worked tirelessly for the progress of Delhi, particularly towards ensuring better infrastructure.
He distinguished himself as a hardworking and people-friendly administrator, both in the Delhi government and Centre.
He made unwavering efforts towards serving the post-partition refugees in Delhi.
“On the special occasion of their Statehood Day, greetings to the people of Meghalaya.
People from Meghalaya have made a notable contribution to our country.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has paid homage to Bhagwan Birsa Munda, on his birth anniversary.
The App is also beneficial for traders.
The Prime Minister spoke of themes such as climate protection and smart cities, which came up for discussion.
He said German innovation and Indian youth could together add great dynamism in the start-up space.
In response to a question on climate change, the Prime Minister reiterated India’s timeless values of nurturing and protecting nature.
He recalled India’s commitment to generate 175 GigaWatts of energy from renewable sources by 2022.
Emphasizing the importance of protecting nature, the Prime Minister said “playing with the well-being of future generations would be an immoral and criminal act.”
Both countries signed 12 agreements.
The Prime Minister said that Pakyong Airport would greatly ease connectivity to Sikkim.
He said that in order to ensure that it is useful to the common man, this airport is part of the UDAN scheme.
The Prime Minister said that emphasis is being given to enhance both infrastructural and emotional connectivity in the entire North Eastern region, at a rapid rate.
It provides a framework and enabling environment to understand each other’s strengths, market, technologies, policies, etc.
The MoU will provide a mechanism and help to foster scientific cooperation between R&D and academic institutions of India and Canada.
• The R&D projects will be aimed at accelerating social transformation by providing solutions through application of science and technology.
• Identified areas of mutual cooperation include safe and sustainable infrastructure and integrated water management.
The Paika Rebellion (Paika Bidroha) was fought against British rule, in Odisha in 1817.
The setting up of a Chair on the Paika Rebellion, in Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, was announced.
He laid the Foundation Stone for pipeline and road projects.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that the total worth of projects which were either inaugurated, or for which the Foundation Stone was laid today, is over Rs. 14,000 crore.
He said the Union Government aims to develop eastern India as the gateway to South-East Asia.
The Prime Minister said that IIT Bhubaneswar would spur the industrial development of Odisha, and work towards technology to improve the lives of the people.
The Prime Minister mentioned the plans to expand the healthcare infrastructure, road network, and oil and gas pipeline infrastructure in the State.
My dear countrymen, Namaskar!
“On World Toilet Day we reaffirm our commitment towards improving sanitation facilities across our nation.
I compliment all those individuals and organisations working towards building more toilets in various parts of India.
He added that the Quit India Movement that began in 1942, was a decisive movement.
The Prime Minister quoted the writer Ramvriksha Benipuri, and the poet Sohanlal Dwivedi to describe the mood that prevailed at that time.
Even otherwise, Uttarakhand has been the main centre for Yoga for several decades.
These mountains of Uttarakhand spontaneously inspire us for Yoga and Ayurveda.
Even a common man gets a unique diving feeling when he visits this place.
There is an incredible spirit, vibrations and magnetic power in this holy land.
From Dehradun to Dublin, from Shanghai to Chicago, from Jakarta to Johannesburg, everywhere, there is Yoga all around.
Whether it is thousands of feet high mountains of Himalaya or be it desert area singed by sunlight, Yoga is flourishing the life in every situation.
Yoga helps to maintain balance amidst this disintegration.
It does the job of uniting us.
Yoga brings about peace in this modern fast paced life by combining the body, mind, spirit and soul.
It brings about peace in the family by uniting the person with the family.
It brings about a harmony in the society by making the family sensitive towards society.
But if we don’t have any trust in our own strength and capabilities then no one will accept it.
If a family itself continues to demoralise a child in the family and if that family expects that the kid will be respected in the locality then it is not possible.
Friends, Yoga has shown the path of wellness to the world from the path of illness.
This is the reason because of which the acceptance for Yoga throughout the world has been increasing so rapidly.
We can protect ourselves from several diseases in addition to having a good heath if we daily practice the poses and breathing exercise of Yoga.
Regular practice of Yoga has a direct bearing on the medical expenses of any family.
It is our responsibility to further develop the understanding about Yoga for a healthy and happy humanity.
The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the MoU between India and Afghanistan on cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space.
The projects reviewed today, include the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor, and construction of four new AIIMS at Manglagiri in Andhra Pradesh, Kalyani in West Bengal, Nagpur in Maharashtra, and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.
The Prime Minister also reviewed the progress of the Smart Cities Mission.
He appreciated the participation of cities in the challenge route.
My heartiest greetings to countrymen on this pious, festive occasion.
Once again, my best wishes to all of you on the occasion of Ramnavami.
My dear countrymen, just like every time earlier, I have received a rather large number of letters, e mails, phone calls and comments from you.
I shall also request listeners of Mann Ki Baat who are engaged in the field of Sanskrit, to ponder over ways & means to take Komalji’s suggestion forward.
In a way, this is endowed with the might to transform the entire season-cycle of the country.
My dear countrymen, the coming months are very crucial for our farming brothers and sisters.
That is why a large number of letters on agriculture have been received.
Dr. Ram Manohar Lal ji had talked of creating a mass awakening on an extensive scale about the necessary measures to ensure a better income for our farmers and provide better irrigation facilities and to increase food and milk production.
I recently visited the Krishi Unnati Mela organized in New Delhi.
They have showed that if once the targets are set, spirits are high and with a strong resolve, the set targets can most certainly be attained.
Brothers and sisters, in this year’s budget a big decision has been taken to ensure that farmers get a fair price for their produce.
In other words, such a system is being set up where in farms in any part of the country will have a market-connect.
The first necessity for a healthy life is cleanliness.
Yoga is a guarantee of both fitness and wellness.
On the previous three International Yoga Days, people in our country and people all over the world participated with great zeal and enthusiasm.
My dear countrymen, I am not a Yoga teacher.
Under ‘Ayushman Bharat Yojana ‘, the Government of India and insurance companies will jointly provide 5 lakh repees for treatment to about 10 crore families or say 50 crore citizens per year.
New AIIMS are being opened in various states with a view to providing better treatment and health facilities to people across the country.
One new medical college will be set up for every three districts.
Today our monetary policy, Start Up India, Stand Up India initiative have become seedbed for our young innovators and young entrepreneurs.
Under the aegis of this campaign, separate programmes on village development, poverty amelioration and social justice will be held throughout India.
I urge you all to be a part of this campaign.
The day of Bhagwan Mahavir’s birth anniversary is a day to remember his sacrifice and penance.
Thirdly, he sought the role of private participation in the distribution of gas sector.
Talking of technology, he appealed for assistance in areas where high pressure and high temperature technology applications are relevant to commercial exploitation of natural gas.
Emphasizing the importance of food processing, the Prime Minister said lack of infrastructure is leading to huge losses in the agriculture sector.
“Today, a day after Diwali, Gujaratis mark the start of a New Year.
He said the awards also indicate the priorities of the Government.
The MOU will help the Academy to disseminate some of its experience in running a training institution for higher civil services in the country to NIPAM.
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has condoled the passing away of Kalaignar Karunanidhi.
The Prime Minister said, ” Congratulations to M Venkaiah Naidu Garu on being elected India’s Vice President.
My mind is filled with memories of working with M Venkaiah Naidu Garu, in the Party & Government.
He asked the Ministry of Urban Development to proactively monitor the same, with sensitivity.
Their unwavering courage and patriotism ensured our country is safe.
The meeting was attended by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, other senior ministers and top officials of the State Government, disaster response agencies and PMO.
Addressing the media at Ahmedabad Airport, the Prime Minister said Gujarat had faced heavy rains for the past week.
The Prime Minister appreciated the State Government, and all other agencies for the response to the flood situation so far.
He announced an immediate additional assistance of 500 crore rupees under the SDRF.
He expressed confidence that the people and the State of Gujarat would emerge even stronger and successfully tackle the challenge posed by the floods.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has welcomed and conveyed best wishes to all teams taking part in the FIFA U-17 World Cup.
“A warm welcome and best wishes to all teams taking part in the FIFA U-17 World Cup.
He recalled that during Mann Ki Baat in December 2017, he had called for organising Mock Parliaments in the districts.
Such Mock Parliaments will further the spirit of discussion among our youth, he added.
He also raised a voice against social evils, he added.
Our youth will never be misled, the Prime Minister added.
It is India’s youth that is taking the Swachh Bharat Mission to new heights, the Prime Minister said.
India has been home to several saints, seers who have served society and reformed it, he added.
The Prime Minister said Seva Bhav is a part of our culture.
The MoU was signed on 25th September 2018.
“I bow to Loknayak Jayprakash Narayan on his birth anniversary.
(b) Creation of one Apex level post of Controller General of Communication Accounts (CGCA).
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that through the India Post Payments Bank, banking services will conveniently reach the remotest places in the country, and the people living there.
He recalled that the Union Government had earlier rolled out the Jan Dhan Yojana to establish financial inclusion.
He said that today’s launch of IPPB is one more step to achieve this objective.
The Prime Minister said that the postman has long been a respected and accepted person in the villages.
He said the trust on the postman remains, despite the advent of modern technology.
Now they shall be empowered with smartphones and digital devices to provide financial services.
He said today India is not just the fastest growing economy in the world, but also the country that is eradicating poverty the fastest.
Will also address a public meeting.
First Lady Kim congratulated the Prime Minister on being awarded the Seoul Peace Prize.
The Prime Minister said that this honour truly belongs to the people of India.
The first 100 percent literate city and first 100 percent literate district have been from Kerala.
Kerala was also the first state to attain 100 percent primary education.
Some of the oldest colleges, schools and libraries of the country are also situated in Kerala.
I believe that reading and knowledge should not be limited only to work related aspects.
Their target is to reach 300 million under-privileged people by 2022.
The main objective of this mission is to promote reading as a means to grow and prosper.
Reading can help broaden one’s thinking.
A well-read population will help India excel globally.
With the same spirit, I had started a similar movement by name of VANCHE GUJARAT when I was Chief Minister of the State.
The movement targeted the young generation, in particular.
I appealed to people to give a book instead of bouquet as a greeting.
From the time of the Upanishads persons with knowledge have been respected through the ages.
We are now in the information age.
Even today, knowledge is the best guiding light.
I would like to see such a reading and library movement in the entire country.
The movement should not be limited to make people literate.
It should try to achieve the real goal of bringing social and economic change.
The foundation of good knowledge should be followed by a super-structure of a better society.
I am happy to note that the State Government has announced 19th June as the reading day.
Obviously, a lot of effort will converge to make this a popular activity.
The Government of India has also provided support to the activities of the foundation.
I am told that about 1.20 crore rupees have been given to the foundation in the last two years.
It has the capacity to make a better society and nation.
It was Atal Ji’s exemplary leadership that set the foundations for a strong, prosperous and inclusive India in the 21st century.
His futuristic policies across various sectors touched the lives of each and every citizen of India.
Atal Ji’s passing away is a personal and irreplaceable loss for me.
I have countless fond memories with him.
He was an inspiration to Karyakartas like me.
Replace Tai Khamti’ instead of ‘Khampti’ at serial No. 6.
Inclusion of ‘Mishmi-Kaman’ (Miju Mishmi), Idu (Mishmi) and Taraon (Digaru Mishmi) in serial No. 8.
Inclusion of Monpa, Memba, Sartang, Sajolong (Miji) in serial No. 9 in lieu of ‘Momba’.
Saddened by his passing away.
26 islands have been listed for holistic development.
The Prime Minister also congratulated all those who were associated with this remarkable feat.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that it was indeed significant that the junior-most and senior-most officers are spending such a lot of time communicating with each other.
He urged all officers to speed up the adoption of Government e- Marketplace (GeM) in their respective departments.
He said this would eliminate middlemen, and result in savings for the government.
This is the seventh interaction in the series by the Prime Minister through video conference with various beneficiaries of Government schemes.
Today, I got the opportunity to launch the new Chartered Accountancy Course Curriculum.
This is the identity of your Dynamic Course and the Credibility of Examinations.
I am hopeful that this new course will further consolidate the financial skills of new aspirants joining this profession.
While new laws have been formulated, older laws have been made more stringent now.
As reported by the Swiss Bank Authorities, the black money deposits of Indian Nationals have a hit a record all time low.
And I am fully aware of the fact that eliminating fake companies and taking action against black money can be politically incorrect and pose a risk to any political party.
But someone has to take such tough decisions for the sake of the country.
It is estimated that there are more than crore engineers and management graduates in our country.
There are more than 8 lakh doctors.
And for that you also have to take tough steps.
A single case takes years to settle.
And brothers and sisters, we cannot forget that these great men are indispensable part of our country’s history.
On this historic occasion the most important role is that of the Chartered Accountants.
Your work is like that of an interface between the government and the tax-paying companies and individuals.
They invest their lifetime savings only on the basis of just one signature of yours.
Chartered accountants can start a new career in this field by becoming insolvency practitioners.
This is a new avenue opened by the government for you people.
It is a rare opportunity for you people as well.
Don’t let this opportunity go past you.
The Facility has the largest underground storage compartment in the country.
Fully automated and State of the art Coastal Installation Project will ensure security of the petroleum products for Andhra Pradesh.
The Union Government had decided to celebrate 7th March 2019 as ‘Jan Aushadhi Diwas’ across India, for creating awareness and providing impetus onthe use of generic medicines.
Interacting with beneficiaries and store owners from over 5000 locations, the Prime Minister said that in order to ensure the availability of high quality medicines at lower prices, Government had taken two major steps.
First, the cost of 850 essential medicines were regulated and the prices of heart stent and equipment for knee surgery were reduced.
Second, a series of Jan Aushadi Kendras were started throughout the country.
These steps have greatly benefitted not only the poor, but also the middle class, PM said.
The Prime Minister said that medicines are available at fifty to ninety percent lower price than the market rates at Jan Aushadi Kendras.
Speaking about the vision of holistic transformation of health sector, Prime Minister said that the approach of the Government is ‘No Silos- Only Solutions’.
All the stake holders related to health sector are working together to transform the sector, PM said.
Interacting with the Prime Minister, the beneficiaries expressed happiness with the good quality of medicines available at Jan Aushadi Kendras.
The ban imposed on Jallikattu by the Supreme Court came up for discussion.
While appreciating the cultural significance of Jallikattu, the Prime Minister observed that the matter is presently sub-judice.
The Centre would be supportive of steps taken by the State Government.
The second edition of “Samvad”- Global Initiative on Conflict Avoidance and Environment Consciousness, is being organised in Yangon today and tomorrow.
The Prime Minister said that if man does not nurture nature, then nature reacts in the form of climate change.
Man must relate to nature, man must revere nature, not merely consider it a resource to be exploited, the Prime Minister asserted.
Ours is a society that holds teachers in very high esteem.
India has emerged a hub for start-ups and innovation.
Indian youngsters have distinguished themselves due to their futuristic and out-of-the-box thinking.
I would particularly urge my young friends to join tomorrow’s interaction.
It will lead to promotion and propagation of Traditional Systems of Medicines of India in Colombia.
The ASI has undertaken several major conservation works across various countries of Asia.
This is Prime Minister Modi’s second bilateral visit to Germany.
There was appreciation for India’s economic reform agenda, including GST.
The leaders reviewed regional and global issues.
Prime Minister Modi reiterated the importance of cohesiveness in the European Union, and its significance as a force of stability in the world.
Congratulations Tejaswini Sawant for the Gold in the women’s 50m Rifle 3 Positions event.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister noted that the Assistant Secretaries programme offers the junior-most and senior-most officers the opportunity to interact with each other.
The Prime Minister encouraged the young officers to imbibe the best from the experiences that they would have had, during their attachment to various Ministries as part of this programme.
The Prime Minister encouraged the officers to develop a connect, with the people around them, and with the people they serve, in course of their duties.
He said that developing a close rapport with people, is one of the keys to achieving success in their tasks and objectives.
Prime Minister Modi conveyed his good wishes for the progress and prosperity of the friendly people of Malaysia.
He stated that the close and mutually beneficial India-Malaysia ties are based on the strong foundation of shared values, interests and vibrant people-to-people relations.
He commended their dedication towards education and for making it their life mantra.
He said that a teacher remains a teacher throughout life.
During the interaction, Prime Minister urged the awardees to mobilize the community and to make them an integral part of school development.
He also encouraged the teachers to digitally transform their schools and its neighbourhood.
Interacting with the Prime Minister, the awardees narrated their inspirational stories in transforming their schools into centres of learning and excellence.
PM will also lay the foundation stone for the construction of Northern Regional Centre Campus of Indian Institute of Mass Communication at Jammu through the unveiling of plaque
The Soundarya Lahari is a set of shlokas composed by Adi Shankaracharya.
At the event, there was mass chanting of Soundarya Lahari.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said he feels a special energy in the environment from this mass chanting.
He said Adi Shankara had united India, through the Vedas and Upanishads.
The Prime Minister said the common man could relate to Adi Shankara’s composition – Soundarya Lahari.
He said Adi Shankara had imbibed the best of practices from different ideologies and thought.
“Successful test firing of Agni V makes every Indian very proud.
It will add tremendous strength to our strategic defence.
Several Union Ministers and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, on Wednesday met and interacted with a group of over 80 Additional Secretaries and Joint Secretaries serving in the Government of India.
This was the fourth of five such interactions.
It depicts the way historically the people of India and ASEAN have been bound together.
The Act East policy of my government puts this region at the centre of our engagement.
We have exceptionally good political and people-to-people relations with each and every country in the ASEAN region.
The number of new tax payers filing income tax returns has more than doubled.
We have used technology to reach out to people.
36 white industries have been taken out from the requirement of environmental clearance.
Incorporating a company is now just a one day affair.
Now, we are a globally integrated economy.
Moreover, these mile-stones have been achieved even before some of the major recent reforms.
This year in July, we have implemented the highly complex task of migrating to a uniform Goods and Services Tax for the whole country.
This has done away with a vast range of State level and central level taxes through-out India.
197 million bank accounts were opened in one year.
Till August this year, 290 million such accounts have been opened in Indian banks.
More than 146 million people are receiving direct cash subsidies through bank accounts on cooking gas alone.
Today, the government is using Direct Benefit Transfers for 59 different schemes.
We wish to build land, sea and air connectivity to this dynamic region.
Out-bound tourism from India is growing at one of the fastest rates in the world.
On 15th August, 2017, they unfurled the tricolour at Khardungla, in Ladakh.
The Prime Minister released Narmada Pravah – the Mission Work Plan for the river Narmada.
On behalf of the people and the farmers of Gujarat and Maharashtra, who benefit from the Narmada, the Prime Minister thanked the people and the Government of Madhya Pradesh, for the Narmada Seva Yatra.
In this context, the Prime Minister mentioned the International Solar Alliance, and the joint effort of India and France to this cause.
The Prime Minister described the Paris Climate agreement as a shared heritage of the whole world, and this generation’s contribution to the hope of future generations of mankind.
He said it is our collective responsibility to save Mother Earth.
The Prime Minister said both leaders also discussed ways to counter terrorism and radicalization.
We launched the process of full membership in Tashkent meeting of the SCO last year.
The MoU was signed on 6th January, 2017 in New Delhi.
In keeping with the PM’s vision to give a boost to spirit of Science, Technology and Innovation across the country, it will be the fifth Indian Science Congress to be addressed by the Prime Minister Shri Modi since he assumed office .
I am also keen to interact with the Indian Community in Portugal during the visit”, the Prime Minister said.
Somnath has more than 2 million followers on social media.
Heartiest greetings to all fellow citizens on this auspicious occasion.
I would like to specially mention the arduous endeavors of the NDRF daredevils.
At this moment of hardship&agony, their service stands out as a shining example.
The capability, commitment & controlling situation through rapid decisions of the NDRF have made them a cynosure of every Indian’s eye, worthy of respect & admiration.
The wave of love and faith that spread across the nation is an indicator of his great personality.
During these last days, many great aspects of Atalji came up to the fore.
This change brought about two important changes in India’s politics.
First one is that the size of the cabinet in states was restricted to 15% of the total seats in the state Assembly.
Atalji was a true patriot.
It was during his tenure that the timing of presenting the budget was changed.
In the year 2001, Atalji changed the time of presenting the budget from 5 pm to 11 am.
This provided a chance to more and more of our countrymen to unfurl our national flag.
Thus, he brought our beloved tricolor closer to the commonman.
Similarly, you can see that presently efforts are afoot and discussions are being held about simultaneously holding the elections for Lok Sabha and for state assemblies.
The Government and the opposition – both are putting forth their view points.
Reiterating our resolve to fulfill his dream of a prosperous and developed India, I along with all of you pay tributes to Atalji.
You will be glad to know that the productivity of Lok Sabha remained 118 percent and that of Rajya Sabha was 74 percent.
This Monsoon session of Parliament will always be remembered as a session for social justice and youth welfare.
A number of importantbills beneficial to the youth and the backward classes were passed during this session.
No civil society can tolerate any kind of injustice towards the woman-power of the country.
This Act will play an effective role in curbing crimes against women and girls.
In the Monsoon session, this time, everyone jointly presented an ideal approach.
I wish to congratulate all players who have won medals for the country.
It is due to his vision of development that all these states are progressing rapidly, the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister said that the task of constructing toilets was undertaken in mission mode.
As a result, more residential and commercial complexes will develop in this region.
In this context, he also recalled his meeting with the High Commissioner of India to Sri Lanka today morning.
IPPB will offer a range of products such as savings and current accounts, money transfer, direct benefit transfers, bill and utility payments, and enterprise and merchant payments.
Speaking on the occasion, at a large public meeting in Ahmedabad, the Prime Minister spoke of the high ambition and willpower of “New India.”
He congratulated the people of India on the occasion, and said that the bullet train project will provide speed and progress, and deliver results quickly.
He said the Government’s focus is on increasing productivity through high speed connectivity.
The Prime Minister thanked Japan for the technical and financial help given to India, for this project.
He praised Prime Minister Abe for the fact that this project is being launched within such a short time.
The Prime Minister said that this high speed railway would not only bring two cities closer, but also bring the people living hundreds of kilometers away, closer to each other.
He said a new economic system is being developed along the Mumbai-Ahmedabad corridor, and the entire area would become a single economic zone.
The Prime Minister said technology is useful only if it provides benefit to the common man.
He said “high-speed corridors” would be regions for rapid growth in the future.
He expressed confidence that everyone would work together to complete this project in the shortest possible time.
Earlier, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said that the India-Japan partnership is special, strategic and global.
He unveiled a Road Map for overall development of tribals during the next five years.
In addition to Kathmandu, I am also looking forward to visiting Janakpur and Muktinath.
Both these places attract a large number of pilgrims every year.
They are living testimony to the ancient and strong cultural and religious ties between the peoples of India and Nepal.
I am looking forward to meeting the political leaders and friends in Nepal.
He said the navies of 50 countries were part of the International Fleet Review organized by the Indian Navy in 2016.
He also said that our Armed Forces conduct an average of ten big joint exercises with Armed Forces of friendly countries, every year.
He said that the huge reduction in piracy in the Indian Ocean, is due, to a large extent, to the military might of India, and our international partnerships.
The Prime Minister said that besides the National War Memorial, the National Police Memorial has also been established.
The Union Government has recognized great national leaders including Sardar Patel, Babasahed Ambedkar, and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, he added.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today laid the foundation stone of various projects of the Government of India and Government of Jharkhand, at an event in Sindri.
These include:
I am sure you distinctly remember that for the last many months, a naval team comprising six women Commanders was on a voyage.
Who does not know of the sense of adventure?
I congratulate these young friends and members of the school in Chandrapur, from the core of my heart.
Just a while ago, 16 year old Shivangi Pathak became the youngest Indian woman to scale Everest from the Nepal side.
Heartiest congratulations, Beti Shivangi.
Ajit Bajaj and his daughter became the first ever father-daughter duo to ascend Everest.
Everybody is now getting connected with this Fit India Campaign.
A single game is known by distinct names at different places.
It used to be played in almost every state.
On this environment day, let all of us give it a good thought as to what can we do to make our planet cleaner and greener?
In many parts of the country, our youth and farmers demonstrated their bravery whilst standing up against the injustice.
It is indeed sad that we kept on calling the events of 1857 only as a rebellion or a soldiers’ mutiny for a very long time.
In fact, May 1857 was not only evaluated as a minor historical incident but was also an attempt to dent our self-respect.
It was Veer Savarkar who boldly expostulated by writing that whatever happened in 1857 was not a revolt but was indeed the First War of Independence.
Savarkaralong with his band of brave hearts celebrated the 50thanniversary of the First War of Independence with great fanfare at India house in London.
This is an example where the daughters are stitching ordinary to good quality clothes for themselves and other families.
Along with this, they are undergoing a training course in skill development.
A meagre tea vendor; today you will be surprised to know that the lives of more than 70 children are being illuminated through education due to his efforts.
Your surroundings too must be full of such inspiring happenings.
There must be innumerable incidents.
Come, let us take positivity forward.
Bilateral meetings with participating countries on the sidelines of BRICS meetings are also planned.
Today solar energy is gaining popularity in India.”
“Rani Lakshmibai is a source of inspiration for every Indian.
Her fortitude in the face of adversity and steadfast opposition to colonialism will never be forgotten.
It is due to greats like her that India won freedom.
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has saluted Babu Jagjivan Ram on his birth anniversary.
In a few hours, we will be ushering in the new year of 2017.
125 crore Indians will join the rest of the world, in welcoming it with new hope, new energy and new dreams.
Since Diwali, our nation has been witness to a historic rite of purification.
The patience, discipline, and resolve displayed by 125 crore Indians, will play a critical role in shaping the future of the nation for years to come.
Usually, when people’s movements have arisen, the people and the government have been at loggerheads.
For us in Government, this is a blessing.
My effort is to take the banking system to normalcy as fast as possible in the new year.
I have asked all concerned officers in the Government to focus their attention to this task.
Do you not feel, that for the good of the country, this movement for honesty, needs to be further strengthened?
If we remain vigilant, we can now save our children from returning to those evil ways of violence and cruelty.
They will not be spared.
Friends, to further the principle of Sabka Saath – Sabka Vikaas, on the eve of the new year, Government is bringing some new programmes for the people.
Rabi sowing is up by 6 per cent compared to last year.
Now, we have taken some more decisions in the interest of farmers.
Now, farmers will have RuPay Debit Cards, which they can use anywhere.
This decision will enable better access to credit for small shop-owners and small enterprises.
Banks and NBFCs will not levy high interest on these loans, as Government of India is bearing the cost of underwriting them.
Government has also asked banks to raise the credit limit for small industry from 20 per cent of turnover to 25 per cent.
Banks have also been asked to increase working capital loans from 20 per cent of turnover to 30 per cent, for enterprises that transact digitally.
Last year, nearly 3 and a half crore people have benefited from this.
The time has now come that all political leaders and parties respect the feelings of the nation’s honest citizens, and understand the anger of the people.
It is true that from time to time, political parties have made constructive efforts to improve the system.
The time has come for this to be seriously considered and debated.
Positive change has always found space in our country.
We can now see a positive momentum towards digital transactions in India.
BHIM stands for Bharat Interface for Money.
In a short time, the new year of 2017 will begin.
Exactly 100 years ago, in 1917, Mahatma Gandhi initiated a Satyagraha in Champaran.
The new dawn of the New Year, comes with the resolve of new success.
He too, greeted the children on Vishwakarma Jayanti, and said it is important to learn various skills.
He exhorted them to study hard and develop a keen interest in sports as well.
Late in the evening, the Prime Minister drove through the streets of Varanasi, evaluating the development of the city.
“Strongly condemn the terrorist attack in Kabul.
My heart goes out to the victim’s families.
The MoU covers the following areas of cooperation:-
1. Exchange & training of medical doctors, officials, other health professionals and experts;
2. Assistance in development of human resources and setting up of health care facilities;
3. Short term training of human resources in health;
4. Regulation of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and cosmetics and exchange of information thereon;
7. Procurement of health equipment and pharmaceutical products;
12. Research and training of food industry operators;
13. Information and communication to citizens on hygiene and food safety and healthy eating habits; and
14. Any other area of cooperation as may be mutually decided upon.
In the course of the day, the Prime Minister interacted with people in Kavaratti, and Kanyakumari.
People explained to him, the hardships faced by them on account of the cyclone.
The Prime Minister said that the Union Government will support the cyclone-affected States through a package of relief measures.
· The Centre will dispatch immediate financial assistance worth Rs. 325 crore to cater to the requirements of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Lakshadweep.
· The financial assistance announced by the Prime Minister today, is over and above the assistance of Rs. 280 crore to Tamil Nadu, and Rs. 76 crore to Kerala, disbursed earlier this month, after Cyclone Ockhi hit the two States/UTs.
· Insurance companies have also been advised to pay the insurance claims of people affected by Ockhi cyclone expeditiously.
PM will inaugurate the newly constructed Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre of Banaras Hindu University.
The hospital will bring comprehensive yet affordable cancer care to patients in UP, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttarakhand and, even, neighbouring countries like Nepal.
Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital Lehartara will also be inaugurated by PM.
With the inauguration of both cancer hospitals, Varanasi is set to become an important centre for quality treatment and care in Cancer related ailments.
Prime Minister Modi will dedicate first new Bhabhatron with precision technology (Multi Leaf Collimator), to the nation.
He will distribute certificates to beneficiaries of various schemes.
He will also distribute aid and assistive devices to Divyangans.
We are happy to have this opportunity to deepen our engagement with the bank and its members.
AIIB started its financing operations in January 2016.
As developing countries, we share similar challenges.
Investments by AIIB in sustainable infrastructure can impact the lives of billions of people.
Regional multi-lateralism through institutions such as AIIB can play a central role in helping to raise resources.
This is a good beginning.
India is one of the most investor-friendly economies in the world.
Investors look for growth and macro-economic stability.
They want political stability and a supportive regulatory framework to ensure protection of their investment.
From the point of larger scale of operations and higher value addition, an investor is also attracted by a large domestic market size, availability of skilled labour and good physical infrastructure.
India has emerged as a bright spot in the global economy which is driving global growth as well.
It is the third largest in terms of purchasing power parity.
In the fourth quarter of 2017, we grew at 7.7 per cent.
In 2018, we are projected to grow at 7.4 per cent.
Despite rising oil prices, inflation is within the mandated range.
The Government is firmly committed to the path of fiscal consolidation.
Government debt as percentage of GDP is consistently declining.
India has achieved a rating upgrade after a long wait.
The external sector remains robust.
Our foreign exchange reserves of more than 400 billion US dollars provide us enough cushion.
As per UNCTAD’s World Investment Report, India continues to be one of the top FDI destinations in the world.
From the point of a foreign investor, India counts as an extremely low risk political economy.
The Government has taken a number of steps to boost investment.
These and other changes have been noticed by the global fraternity.
India has jumped 42 places in three years to enter the top hundred in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Report 2018.
The size and growth of the Indian market hold much potential.
India’s per capita income has doubled in the last ten years.
We have over 300 million middle class consumers.
This number is expected to double in the next ten years.
The size and scale of requirement in India gives the added advantage of economies of scale for investors.
For example, the housing programme in India targets ten million houses in urban areas.
Therefore the use of new technology in house construction would have added advantage, if tried in India.
Another example of scale would be the Renewable Energy Programme in India.
We have set a target to construct capacity of 175 Giga Watt of renewable energy by the year 2022.
We have added more capacity to renewable energy than conventional energy in 2017.
We are also making collaborative efforts to mainstream solar energy in the form of an International Solar Alliance.
The founding conference of the Alliance was held in New Delhi earlier this year.
The Alliance aims at a solar capacity of 1000 Giga Watt with an investment of one trillion US Dollars by 2030.
India is working on e-mobility.
We will be hosting a global mobility conference this year.
I hope that this will help us in moving forward.
In India, we are upgrading connectivity at all levels.
The Bharatmala scheme is aimed at improving road connectivity by constructing national corridors and highways.
Dedicated Freight Corridors are being developed to mitigate the congestion of our railway network.
Bharat Net is targeted at providing last mile internet connectivity in the country.
Our United Payments Interface system or UPI along with BHIM App and RuPay Card has shown the true potential of digital economy in India.
Through the UMANG App, more than 100 public services have been made available to the citizens through their mobile phone.
We aim to provide every poor and homeless household a house with toilet, water and electricity by the year 2022.
We are also looking at various strategies for effective waste management.
This will provide a benefit cover of over 7000 dollars annually to more than 100 million poor and vulnerable families.
The resulting expansion of health care facilities will lead to the creation of a large number of jobs.
This will also promote the production of high quality medicines, consumables and other medical technology equipment.
I see great untapped potential in this for investors.
The Indian story of economic resurgence closely mirrors that of many other parts of Asia.
Now, the continent finds itself at the centre of global economic activity.
It has become the main growth engine of the world.
In fact, we are now living through what many have termed the ‘Asian Century’.
A ‘New India’ is rising.
We look forward to our continued engagement with our development partners including AIIB.
BIMSTEC is a natural platform for regional cooperation.
The ten questions in the Survey are as follows:
The Prime Minister reviewed the flood situation during a meeting with Shri PinarayiVijayan, the Chief Minister of Kerala, and officials of the State Government.
After the review, the Prime Minister announced a financial assistance of Rs 500 crore to the State.
This is in addition to Rs. 100 Cr. announced by the Home Minister on 12.08.2018.
PM has directed Insurance Companies to hold special camps for assessment & timely release of compensation to the affected families/beneficiaries under Social Security Schemes.
Any further request for incurring the person days would be considered as per the requirement projected by the State.
Under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture, farmers would be provided assistance for replantation of damaged horticulture crops.
The flood situation in Kerala has been continuously and closely monitored by the Union Government.
All help is being provided to the State Government to deal with the adverse situation.
The Prime Minister has been in constant touch with the Chief Minister regarding the flood situation.
57 Teams of NDRF involving about 1300 personnel and 435 Boats are deployed for search and rescue operations.
Five (5) Companies of BSF, CISF and RAF’s have been deployed in the State to carry out rescue and relief measures.
The Prime Minister complimented the State Government for the efforts made in meeting the challenges of the unprecedented situation.
He thanked Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for the warm welcome and respect accorded to him throughout his visit.
He said that he has been told that in the 13th century, the Indian Sufi Saint Baba Farid had come to Jerusalem, and meditated in a cave.
The Prime Minister described the relationship between India and Israel as one of traditions, culture, trust and friendship.
The Prime Minister noted the impressive technological progress made by Israel, and its long traditions of bravery and martyrdom.
He recalled that Indian soldiers had played a key role in the liberation of Haifa during the first world war.
The Prime Minister gave an overview of reforms undertaken in India in the recent past.
He mentioned the roll-out of GST, auctioning of natural resources, insurance and banking sector reforms, and skill development, among others.
He said the Government aims to double income of farmers by 2022.
The work will be completed within a period of 36 months.
They reaffirmed that being multicultural, multilingual and multi-religious societies, India and Russia bring civilizational wisdom to address modern day challenges.
Together, they contribute to creating a more interconnected and diverse world.
5. The Sides called upon all states to work towards the lessening of global tensions and promoting the ideals of tolerance, cooperation, transparency and openness in inter-state relations.
They stressed that the primary challenge in large parts of the world remains ensuring rapid and environmentally sustainable economic development, removal of poverty, reducing inequality among and within states, and providing basic health care.
India and Russia pledged to cooperate with each other to achieve these goals.
The Sides welcomed the establishment of a pharmaceutical plant by Advance Pharma Company in Russia.
The Indian Side conveyed its intention to increase import of fertilizers from Russia.
The Sides noted the importance of expansion of collaboration in aluminium sector.
17. They welcomed the signing of the MoU between National Small Industries Corporation of India and the Russian Small and Medium Business Corporation.
The Russian Side offered its expertise in tax collection based on satellite navigation technologies for the realization of joint projects in India including in the framework of above mentioned industrial corridors.
The Russian Side expressed its interest in participating in the international competitive biddings as and when the Ministry of Railways of India decides to execute the railway speed raising projects.
The Sides noted the importance of cooperation in the area of transport education, personnel training and scientific support in the implementation of international transport corridors.
For these purposes the Sides maintain cooperation between the National Rail and Transportation Institute (Vadodara) of the Republic of India and the Russian University of Transport (MIIT).
The Sides agreed to make efforts to convene the INSTC Ministerial and Coordination meeting on priority.
After the start of the project Customs administrations of both countries will be committed to its further expansion.
23. The Sides appreciated the efforts to further cement and institutionalize cooperation between Indian States and Russian Regions.
Both Sides noted recent investments by Indian companies in the diamond manufacturing in the Russian Far East.
The Sides agreed to explore opportunities of joint collaboration in precious metals, minerals, natural resources and forest produce, including timber, through joint investments, production, processing and skilled labour.
26. The Russian Side invited the Indian Side to invest in the Russian Far East.
The Indian Side welcomed the decision to open an office of the Far East Agency in Mumbai.
The Indian delegation, which was led by the Minister for Commerce & Industry, and Civil Aviation Suresh Prabhu, participated in the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok in September 2018.
A high level Russian delegation would visit India to organize investment road-shows and promote greater Indian investments in the Far East.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
The Sides resolved to continue mutual support and synergies at various platforms including BRICS and ITU.
33. The Sides expressed interest in the development of mutually beneficial cooperation in the Arctic, inter alia in the sphere of joint scientific research.
The Sides noted with satisfaction the longstanding cooperation of Indian and Russian scientists in the Antarctic.
They called for all issues related to the Iranian nuclear programme to be resolved peacefully and through dialogue.
They reiterate the important role of the United Nations, including the High Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, in coordinating and reviewing global implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
59. The Sides reiterated their commitment to further strengthen global non-proliferation.
Russia expressed its support for India’s membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
The Sides emphasized the importance of the continuation of the multilateral dialogue on this theme within the framework of the East Asia Summits and other regional fora.
64. The Sides noted that the participation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of India Narendra Modi in the SCO Heads of State Council Meeting in Qingdao in June 2018 marked successful involvement of India in the work of the Organization as a full-fledged member.
The Sides agreed to deepen cultural and humanitarian ties within the SCO.
The sportspersons had called on the Prime Minister at Parliament House, New Delhi.
The Prime Minister congratulated the medal winners for their exemplary performance in the international arena.
Exchanged by
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has condoled the loss of lives due to bus accident in Mandya, Karnataka.
My thoughts are with the families of the deceased.
My participation in the Summit symbolises India’s highest priority to our neighbourhood and our strong commitment to continue deepening our relationship with the extended neighbourhood in South-East Asia.
He added that Vietnam is a key pillar of India’s “Act East” policy.
Most beneficiaries said that the there has been an overall improvement in the quality of life.
He will join in the celebrations to mark one-year of the State Government.
He will release a document highlighting the achievements of the Government.
The Prime Minister will address a public rally in Dharamshala in Kangra district.
President Ghani expressed his condolences to the families of the martyred soldiers.
The Swachhata Hi Seva movement, launched today, aims at generating greater public participation towards Swachhta.
Last year was the birth centenary year of Nelson Mandela.
And last year was also the silver jubilee year of our diplomatic relations.
And in our first meeting itself I had experienced his enthusiasm and affection towards India.
I experienced his excellent hospitality during the BRICS Summit in South Africa last year.
Our trade and investment relations are becoming more and more intense.
Our bilateral trade is more than $10 billion.
We are also partners in South Africa’s skill development efforts.
If we look at the map of the world, it is clear that both India and South Africa are located at very important places in the Indian Ocean.
We both are democratic countries filled with diversities.
Our mutual cooperation and coordination on many forums like BRICS, G-20, Indian Ocean Rim Association, IBSA, is very strong.
We are also working together on the reforms of the UN Security Council.
Not only me, whole India and whole South Africa is eager to listen to the thoughts of the Hon’ble President.
Presence of President Ramaphosa on the Republic Day and participation as the Chief Guest, is a symbol of our shared commitment to strengthen our relations.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today attended a Sahkar Sammelan in New Delhi, on the occasion of the birth centenary celebrations of Shri Laxmanrao Inamdar.
He said that Shri Inamdar had imbibed this principle, and his life is a source of inspiration.
He said the cooperative movement can play a key role in the achievement of these objectives.
The Prime Minister emphasized the importance of preserving the “spirit” in the cooperative movement, which he said is still largely intact in the rural areas.
He reiterated Shri Inamdar’s mantra of “Bina Sanskar, Nahin Sahkar.”
The Prime Minister said that today, the farmer buys in retail, but sells in wholesale.
Giving the example of dairy cooperatives, he said that the cooperative movement has the capacity to solve people’s problems.
He added that the cooperative movement is in sync with the nature of Indian society.
First of all, I congratulate all of you for this Regional Conference on an important subject like Consumer Protection.
This event is the first of its kind in South Asia.
I would also like to express gratitude to UNCTAD for having supported India’s initiative and playing an active role in bringing it to this stage.
In such a scenario, Consumer Protection is an important component which enhances and strengthens trade in this region.
It is also very heartening to see that the United Nations has come forward as a partner in this entire process.
Regardless of the nature of business, Consumer satisfaction should be the prime motive.
The capacity of the National Consumer Helpline has been increased 4 times.
Portals and Social Media associated with Consumer Protection have also been integrated.
A large number of private companies have been connected to the portal.
Consumers are also being made aware through the “Jago Grahak Jago” campaign.
Friends, in my view and in the vision of my govt. the scope of Consumer Protection is very broad.
Ujjwala Yojna for Clean Energy, Swacch Bharat Abhiyaan for health and hygiene, Jan-Dhan Yojna for Financial Inclusion reflect this spirit.
The govt. is also working towards the goal that every citizen of the country owns a house by 2022.
Recently, a scheme has also been launched to provide electricity connection to every household of the country.
This also is saving crores of rupees for the poor and middle class people.
Friends, keeping the inflation under control has caused economic benefits to the poor and middle class consumers.
Otherwise, the rate at which the Inflation was rising during previous government’s tenure it would have resulted in huge rise in the budget of the common citizen’s kitchen.
Here, on this occasion, I specially want to inform colleagues from other countries about Give-it-up campaign.
Through Make in India we are offering a platform to Global Companies to produce in India and to make better use of our huge human resource.
Friends, this is a first of its kind conference in this part of the world.
E-commerce and trans-border mobility of people is resulting in increased cross border transactions.
A framework for cooperation is also necessary to expeditiously act in cases related to consumers from other countries.
This will enhance mutual trust and trade.
Creating a Structured Mechanism for Communication, Mutual Sharing of Best Practices, Creating New Initiatives for Capacity Building and Starting Joint Campaigns, are such areas which can be pursued in mutual interest.
Friends, strengthening of our emotional bonds will also strengthen our shared cultural and trade heritage.
The Prime Minister later inaugurated the Patanjali Research Institute in Haridwar district.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that we will not ignore or forget the heritage that we have been historically proud of.
He added that the innovative spirit of our ancestors must be kept alive.
The Prime Minister said that cleanliness, or Swachhta, is one of the most important aspects of preventive healthcare.
At Bhilai, the Prime Minister will dedicate the modernized and expanded Bhilai Steel Plant, to the nation.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate air services between Jagdalpur and Raipur.
He will also address a public meeting.
He will also flag off a new express train from Ayodhya to Rameswaram (via video conference).
PM will release a synopsis of the Green Rameswaram Project.
These are just a few examples.
A teacher asked the Prime Minister about what teachers should tell parents who are stressed about the exams of their children, and have unrealistic expectations.
The Prime Minister said that spiritual institutions in India, have been centres for the spread of social reform.
He described tourism as an ancient concept in India, and a spiritual tradition.
The MoU will help in strengthening bilateral cooperation between the two countries.
He will also dedicate to Nation the West- North Inter-Region Power Transmission Strengthening Project to ensure uninterrupted power supply to Western Uttar Pradesh.
Keeping in line with the Government’s vision of providing drinking water to all, PM will lay the Foundation Stone of Piped Water Scheme for the rural areas of Bundelkhand Region.
The project is significant as it will ensure water supply to the drought prone Bundelkhand region.
PM will lay the foundation stone of doubling of 425 km long Jhansi-Manikpur and Bhimsen-Khairar railway lines.
It will not only provide easy movement of trains but also help in the overall development of Bundelkhand region.
The Prime Minister explained how the Union Government is focused on improving ease of doing business, and ease of living for the citizens.
He expressed happiness at the large presence of Japanese companies in India.
He said India is today the fastest growing major economy.
The Prime Minister emphasized on the shared values between India and Japan.
Thus all sections and regions of the country will get benefited.
Minister Le Drian briefed the Prime Minister on the current status of bilateral defence cooperation.
He recounted the various steps, including demonetization, taken by the Union Government in the last three years, against black money, and to bring elements indulging in corruption, to book.
The Prime Minister said that as many as three lakh companies have come under the scanner, in the course of inspecting the data mined after demonetization.
Dr. Abdul Momen briefed the Prime Minister on recent developments in the bilateral relationship.
The Prime Minister said that India-Bangladesh relations have been on an upward trajectory in the last few years.
I am excited to lead the Indian delegation for our first-ever meeting of the Council as a full member.
It also provides for getting the name of the company struck off from the Registrar of Companies after setting balance liabilities of TSPL.
He appreciated the officers who have been instrumental in facilitating this change.
The Prime Minister said that the Conference has now become more relevant, in the context of challenges and responsibilities facing the country.
He said the new format of the Conference has resulted in a marked improvement in the quality of discussions.
He commended the country’s security apparatus for the work they are doing in securing the country.
He said that the officers present in the gathering today have delivered leadership, despite often having to operate in an environment of negativity.
He said this Conference is helping top police officers get a more holistic view of problems and challenges.
He said this would greatly help in improving effectiveness of the exercise.
During the interaction, the crew made a presentation on various aspects of the mission, their preparation, training, and experiences during the journey.
The Prime Minister congratulated the crew on the success of their mission.
He encouraged them to share and write about their unique experiences during the journey.
Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Sunil Lanba, was present on the occasion.
Financial assistance worth Rs.2 lakh will be provided to the family of each of the deceased while assistance worth Rs. 50,000 will be provided to the persons who are seriously injured in the flood hit areas.
He then witnessed an audio-visual presentation of experience sharing by select beneficiaries of schemes of the Government of India and Government of Rajasthan.
Addressing the large and enthusiastic gathering, the Prime Minister said he is witnessing first-hand, how Rajasthan welcomes visitors.
He said that the happiness of the beneficiaries who featured in the presentation today, was evident to everyone present at the gathering.
The Prime Minister spoke at length about how the Union Government is working for the welfare of the farmers.
In this way, the national assets would be utilized in the best national interest.
The remaining part of the land will be managed in accordance with the guidelines of the Department of Investment & Public Assets Management (DIPAM) and Department of Public Enterprises (DPE).
Was it possible if a new era of honesty had not been ushered in the country, in the economy of the country?
Now some people may ask why I have picked up those two years only.
Foreign investors have made record investments in India today.
I would like to assure that the steps taken by the Government would help India move into a new league in the years to come.
Even you would be aware that how many administrative and financial steps are needed to be taken by the government for construction of highways.
This data reflects that how the government has performed the role of a policy maker and policy implementer after bringing the country out of policy paralysis.
If we talk about the three years of this government, then more than 22,000 megawatt renewable energy capacity has been connected to the grid power.
This is a reflection of our commitment to provide houses to the poor people, to the middle class.
The government has stressed upon bringing more foreign investment in the country.
Speaking on this occasion, the Prime Minister congratulated the gathering on the celebration of Dhanvantari Jayanti as Ayurveda Divas.
He complimented the Ministry of AYUSH for the establishment of the All India Institute of Ayurveda.
The Prime Minister asserted that nations cannot progress unless they value and cherish their history and heritage.
Those nations who leave their heritage behind, are destined to lose their identity, he added.
The Prime Minister said that when India was not independent, its knowledge, and its traditions such as Yoga and Ayurveda were belittled.
Attempts were even made to reduce the faith that Indians had on them, he added.
He said that more than 65 AYUSH hospitals have been developed in the last three years.
He said the Union Government has approved 100 percent FDI in healthcare systems.
The Prime Minister said that the Government is focused on providing affordable healthcare for the poor.
He said the stress has been on preventive healthcare, and improving affordability and access to treatment.
He said Swachhata – or cleanliness – is a simple mechanism of preventive healthcare.
He said the Union Government has got 5 crore toilets built in three years.
The Prime Minister said that new AIIMS are being established to help the people get better access to healthcare.
He will address a diverse gathering, consisting of farmers, scientists, entrepreneurs, students, government officials, and legislators.
Biofuels can help reduce import dependency on crude oil.
At a public meeting, he flagged off the 900th coach, and a Humsafar Rake.
He also dedicated to the nation, inaugurated, or laid the Foundation Stone for various development projects at Rae Bareli.
He described the Constitution as the very soul of our democratic structure.
The Prime Minister said that the Constitution has been a guardian for us.
He emphasized that we, the people, must also work as per the expectations that our guardian – the Constitution – has from us.
He said this constructive atmosphere should be used to move swiftly towards the creation of New India.
He said Lok Adalats can play a key role in reducing pendency of cases in the judiciary.
He outlined several other steps that are being taken to improve “ease of access to justice.”
The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved Signing of Agreement between the India and Ukrain for cooperation in Agriculture and Food Industry.
I strongly condemn the violence and urge everyone to maintain peace.
The law and order situation is being closely monitored.
He emphasized the importance of positive news for a vibrant and prosperous nation.
He said projects worth 12 lakh crore rupees have been speeded up in this way.
The Prime Minister emphasized that laws and Acts have to be followed up by action.
In this context, he mentioned the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code.
He told the medal winners that their sporting feats have raised India’s stature and pride.
He expressed hope that the medal winners will remain grounded and would not lose focus due to fame and accolades.
During the interaction, Prime minister urged the sports persons to use technology as an aid to improve their performance.
He said that the biggest challenge for the medal winners will start now and they should never lose their goal of being in the Olympic Games podium.
As a veteran Parliamentarian, he enriched parliamentary proceedings.
He was an effective voice for Karnataka’s aspirations in Delhi.
My Dear Countrymen, Namaskar
I appreciate the Election Commission for relentlessly striving to ensure the strengthening of our democracy.
My dear countrymen, today as we refer to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, that too in ‘Mann Ki Baat’, I would like to share with you an incident from Netaji’s life.
In this very Kranti Mandir, a visual arts museum has been established.
Recently 30 nano satellites were launched.”
Earlier he also expressed sadness over loss of lives in forest fire in Portugal.
No new funds have been approved.
Prime Minister appreciated the contribution made by Secretary Carter in strengthening the defence cooperation between India and the United States.
Prime Minister recalled his successful visit to the United States in June this year.
He reaffirmed India’s commitment to a robust and strong bilateral strategic partnership with the US.
Secretary Carter briefed Prime Minister on the progress in taking forward the decisions and understandings reached in June this year.
The MoU will be a step forward in engaging with the institutions of Saudi Arabia to attract a potential investment into the infrastructure sector in the country.
The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex post-facto approval to the MoU between India and Singapore on cooperation in the field of urban planning and development.
The MoU was signed on 31st May 2018.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister congratulated all those who have been conferred the prestigious Gandhi Peace Prize.
He noted that the prize is being conferred at a time when India marks the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
The Prime Minister expressed happiness that on this occasion, the devotional hymn Vaishnav Jan To, which was so dear to Bapu, had been rendered by artistes in about 150 countries across the world.
He said this is an indication that the world accepts the relevance of Gandhi’s ideals, even today.
The Prime Minister spoke of Mahatma Gandhi’s commitment to Swachhta.
The Prime Minister noted that the freedom struggle became a mass movement due to the visionary efforts of Mahatma Gandhi.
He added that Mahatma Gandhi had merged the streams of Jan Bhagidari (public participation) and Jan Andolan (mass movement).
The beneficiary who takes a loan under the scheme would be provided interest subsidy for loan amount upto Rs. 2 Lakhs.
The Prime Minister appreciated the close bilateral cooperation in sectors such as investment, urban development, civil aviation, and skill development.
At Anand, the Prime Minister will inaugurate modern food processing facilities, including Amul’s ultra-modern Chocolate Plant.
The Prime Minister will lay the Foundation Stone for the expansion of Amul manufacturing facilities at Anand and Khatraj.
He will address the gathering.
The Prime Minister will then travel to Anjar.
The Prime Minister will also unveil a plaque to mark the inauguration of a public housing project of 624 houses.
He will witness the e-Gruh Pravesh of 240 beneficiary families.
I particularly welcome and thank the 15 Partner Countriesof this edition of Vibrant Gujarat.
A number of conventions and seminarshave been organised on various topics.
This shows that international bilateral cooperation is no longer limited to national capitals, but now extends to our State capitals as well.
In India,as in most emerging economies, our challenge is to grow horizontally as well as vertically.
As we have done so, we continued to remain one of the fastest growing major Economies in the world.
Major international Financial Institutionslike the World Bank and the IMFas well as agencies like Moody’s have expressed confidence in India’s economic journey.
We have focused on removing the barrierswhich were preventing us from achieving our full potential.
In FDI Foreign Direct Investment, we are one of the most open countries now.
Most of the sectors of our economy are now only open for FDI.
More than 90 percent approvals have been put on automatic route.
Such measures have propelled our economy into a high growth path.
In the last two years,we have moved towards a low tax regimeon the corporate side.
Investments through our “Make in India” initiative, have been well supported by programmes like ‘Digital India’ and ‘Skill India’.
On the energy front, we are now the fifth largest producer of renewable energy in the world.
We are fourth largest in Wind Energyand fifth largest producer of Solar Energy.
We are keen to scale up investments in next generation infrastructureincluding roads, ports, railways, airports, telecom, digital networks and energy.
Rural road connectivity is now 90 %.
We are giving loans to small enterprises without collateral.
We now have electricity in every village.
Ayushman Bharat will provide immense investment opportunitiesin the areas of health infrastructure, medical equipment manufacturing, and healthcare services.
The requirement of road, rail and waterways is enormous.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, on Thursday reviewed progress of key infrastructure sectors including PMGSY, housing, coal and power.
In course of the presentation made by CEO NITI Aayog, it was noted that remarkable progress has been made in several areas.
Reviewing the coal sector, the Prime Minister called for renewed efforts towards underground mining and coal gasification, through infusion of latest technology inputs.
During their meeting, Prime Minister extended a warm welcome to President Mirziyoyev and his delegation to Gujarat.
Congrats to ISRO for the successful launch of GSAT-11, which is the heaviest, largest and most-advanced high throughput communication satellite of India.
The MoU was signed in April, 2017.
This MoU shall remain in force for a period of five years.
It can be terminated by either Party after giving six months’ prior notice in writing to the other Party.
The areas of cooperation on Youth matters includes exchanges of youth, representatives of youth organizations, and government officials in-charge of youth policy-making.
“Tributes to Mahatma Phule on his Jayanti.
His pioneering and relentless emphasis on social reform greatly helped the marginalised.
Germany ranks 7th among foreign investor countries in India.
On Citizenship Bill, PM urged people not be carried away by the rumours related to the citizenship bill.
PM laid the foundation stone of a six-lane bridge over mighty river Brahmaputra.
That is why the Indian Ocean has a special place in the policies of the Government, he added.
He said India believes that the world is one family, and is fulfilling its global responsibilities.
He said countries of the world wish to walk with India on the path of peace and stability.
Prime Minister exchange views with the delegation members on the bilateral partnership and other issues of mutual interest.
Most of the grievances are related to issues of poor service quality, connectivity and non-functioning of landline connections.
During a review of the progress of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban), the Prime Minister underlined the Union Government’s commitment to provide Housing for All by 2022.
He also asked senior officials in the Union Government to review the progress on a weekly basis.
Increase in maternity leave is a welcome provision.
Nordic solutions in clean technologies, maritime solutions, port modernisation, food processing, health, life-sciences and agriculture were mentioned.
They agreed to continue efforts to develop cleaner energy systems, renewable energy and fuels, increased energy efficiency and technologies for cleaner energy production.
The Prime Ministers agreed that a strong partnership can help spur innovations, economic growth, sustainable solutions and mutually beneficial trade and investments.
His demise is anguishing.
As part of it, government has started training about one lakh masons.
Resolution of Public Grievances has also been reviewed in 17 sectors.
Today, in the twenty-third meeting, the Prime Minister reviewed the progress towards handling and resolution of grievances related to consumers.
Speaking on the occasion, he said that the Archaeological Survey of India has performed significant work over the course of the last 150 years or so.
The Prime Minister emphasized the importance of taking pride in our history, and in our rich archaeological heritage.
He said that people should take a lead in knowing about local history, and archaeology of their towns, cities and regions.
The Prime Minister said that India should showcase its great heritage with pride and confidence, to the world.
The South Asia Satellite tells us that even the sky is not the limit when it comes to regional cooperation among like-minded countries.
“सबका साथ सबका विकास” can be the guiding light for action and cooperation in South Asia.
Bilateral relations between India and Russia are marked by broad understanding on issues of mutual interest.
Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister asserted that development is the best answer to all kinds of violence.
He also spoke of the benefits that the other development projects launched today would bring about.
He spoke of the benefit that schemes such as Jan Dhan Yojana, Mudra Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, Fasal Bima Yojana and Saubhagya have brought about in the State.
Shri Narendra Modi said that keeping in mind the interests of the tribal population, the Forest Rights Act is being strictly implemented.
But it is good that the monsoon is moving ahead on schedule on its natural course.
The weather has become pleasant in several parts of the country with abundant showers.
This festival is now also celebrated in some parts of the world.
The holy month of Ramzan is observed all across, in prayer with piety.
And now the festival of Eid is here.
Uttarakhand and Haryana have also been declared ODF, this week.
I express my gratitude to the administration, government and especially the people of these five states, for achieving this objective.
We have to further fortify that legacy.
From the seashores to the mountains, people welcomed the first rays of the sun, with Yoga.
Almost all the countries in the world made Yoga Day their own.
The staff of the UN and diplomats from across the world participated.
Yoga has created a world record again this time also.
In Ahmedabad in Gujarat, around 55 thousand people performed Yoga together and created a new world record.
Our soldiers practiced yoga in Siachen where temperatures reach minus 20, 25, 40 degrees.
Recently, I had the opportunity to go to one of my favorite events.
As there are no middlemen, the goods are available at very reasonable rates.
We are all aware that a few days ago, ISRO has successfully launched the GSAT-19.
You may be aware that when we had successfully created a place for the Mars Mission in orbit, this entire mission was planned for a duration of 6 months.
There is no dearth of talent in our country.
If the children in our family are interested in sports, they should be given opportunities.
Each one should nurture dreams for the next Olympics.
“Today, Jan Dhan Yojana completes 3 years.
I congratulate the crores of people, particularly the poor, who benefitted from this initiative.
Jan Dhan Revolution is a historic movement to bring the poor, downtrodden and marginalised into the financial mainstream.
Through Jan Dhan Yojana, social security schemes, MUDRA & Stand-Up India, we have given wings to millions of aspirations.
He said the development projects being inaugurated today augur well for the cooperative sector.
He said the brand of Amul is known globally, and has become an inspiration worldwide.
He said Amul is not only about milk processing, but an excellent model of empowerment.
I assure that the Government of India stands committed for extending all necessary support for efforts of the state in tackling these diseases.
I am delighted to visit this great country once again.
I have always considered my engagements with you extremely useful.
Over the years, I have visited Japan several times.
Indeed, my personal engagement with the leadership, Government, Industry and people of Japan is now almost a decade old.
Japanese people have led the world in sustainable development.
There is also a deep sense of social responsibility and ethical behaviour.
We are also familiar with Japan’s enormous contributions to the process of development in other parts of the world, especially in Asia and Africa.
India’s core values are rooted in our civilizational heritage.
It gets inspiration through the teachings of Truth from Gautam Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi.
It gets its wings from our democratic traditions, emphasis on both wealth and value creation, a robust sense of enterprise and quest to modernize and prosper its economy.
Our present is encouraging us to work together.
I have been saying that this twenty first (21st Century) is Asia’s Century.
Today, India is on the path of several major transformations.
We have taken decisive steps and built a governance system that will help India realize its potential.
The results are already visible.
In 2015, the Indian economy grew faster than other major economies.
World Bank and IMF assess this trend to continue.
Lower labour costs, large domestic market and macro-economic stability combine to make India a very attractive investment destination.
In the last two fiscal years, we received about 55 billion dollars as foreign direct investment.
This is not only highest ever FDI but also highest growth in FDI in India.
It is no surprise that today Japan is India’s fourth largest source of FDI.
On our part, we would, of course, want greater influx of Japanese investments.
India’s development needs are huge and substantial.
All of these offer unprecedented opportunities for Japanese industry.
Made in India and Made by Japan combination has already started to work and converge wonderfully.
Cars made in India by a Japanese car maker are already selling in Japan.
I wish to thank and congratulate those of you who are already in India.
To those who are exploring, I promise you that we are committed to further refine our policies and procedures to boost Make in India.
Creating an enabling environment for business and attracting investments remains my top priority.
Stable, predictable and transparent regulations are redefining the nature of doing business in India.
We are setting up commercial courts and commercial divisions to ensure speedy disposal of commercial matters.
The arbitration proceedings will now become faster as the Arbitration law has been amended.
In June this year, we have further relaxed our FDI regime.
We have also announced a new Intellectual Property Rights policy.
All of these point to the new direction of economic reforms that India is pursuing.
Its involvement in our mega projects like Dedicated Freight Corridors, Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor, Metro Rail and High Speed Rail signifies scale and speed.
I have said earlier also that the combination of your hardware and our software is a fantastic combination.
It will benefit both countries.
Let us join hands even more closely and strongly.
Our goal is to build a relationship that reflects our shared priorities and draws on enduring bonds between our peoples.
We agreed that efficiency of water and resource use; water conservation and its purification; productivity increases in agriculture are key areas in deepening our bilateral cooperation.
We regard thriving two-way trade and investment flows as the bedrock of a strong partnership.
Tomorrow, I will travel to Haifa to pay homage to our brave Indian soldiers.
The delegation expressed its strong support of the Prime Minister’s vision for making India a five trillion dollar economy in the near future.
The Prime Minister said that the Indian entertainment industry enjoys immense popularity across the world.
It is one of the key elements of India’s rising soft power status, globally, he added.
The situation that has emerged in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, as a fallout of the issue of distribution of the waters of the Cauvery River, is distressful.
He emphasized that the government is committed to the wellbeing of the elderly population.
“Congratulations to Donald Trump on assuming office as US President.
Strength of the India-USA strategic partnership lies in our shared values and common interests.
The channel will be the 24th channel operated by Doordarshan.
It will cater to film students especially those from the North Eastern states.
PM will inaugurate the upgraded Tezu Airport in Arunachal Pradesh.
The airport has been retrofitted and new terminal constructed for making it fit for commercial operations under UDAN scheme.
50 health and wellness centers in Arunachal Pradesh will be inaugurated by PM .
Health and Wellness Centers is one of the vital components of Ayushman Bharat in ensuring Universal Health Coverage.
PM will also declare 100% household electrification in Arunachal Pradesh under Saubhagya Scheme.
PM in Assam
From Itanagar, PM will return to Guwahati .
The grid is part of Government’s plan to provide cheap and quality gas to the entire North East Region.
City Gas Distribution ensures the supply of cleaner fuel (PNG) to households, industrial & commercial units.
PM will inaugurate Hollong Modular Gas Processing Plant in Tinsukia, Assam.
Once inaugurated this facility will deliver 15% of the total gas produced in Assam.
This line will boost Tripura as the gateway to South and Southeast Asia.
President Xi and I will exchange views on a range of issues of bilateral and global importance.
26th January, our Republic Day was celebrated with joy and enthusiasm in every nook and corner of the nation by all of us.
I hope that the amount of emphasis that is given to the rights at every level during most of the time, is also given to discussing duties of citizens in an emphatic manner.
All of us pay tributes to the martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the motherland, by observing silence for 2 minutes at 11 am on 30th January.
As a society, as a nation, the 2 minute tribute of silence on 30th January at 11 am, should become our instinctive nature.
This 2 minutes silence is an expression of our collective resolve and reverence for the martyrs.
In our country there is an innate respect for the military and the security forces.
I congratulate and felicitate the young heroes and their families who were honoured with various gallantry awards on the eve of this Republic Day.
When we get to know the in depth details of their courage, bravery, valour in detail, we are filled with astonishment and pride and we also get inspired!
My young friends, you know very well that I regularly do my ‘Mann Ki Baat’.
January, February, March, April – all these are for every family, months of most severe test!
Exams in themselves, should be a joyous occasion.
After a year of hard work, one has the opportunity to display one’s capabilities, so this should be a festival of joy and enthusiasm.
You will witness for yourself the ensuing change.
Actually from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and from Kutch to Kamrup and from Amreli to Arunachal Pradesh, these 3-4 months have examinations galore.
And therefore the most effective medicine that exists for memory recall is relaxation.
Sometimes it also appears that we are not able to perceive examinations in a proper perspective.
It seems to become a question of life and death.
See, the exam you are going to appear at is the exam of what you have studied during this whole year.
But it is not a test of your life.
So I would like to know your views concerning the current direction of education and its future course.”
Life moves ahead depending upon the condition that whatever the sense of mission you have achieved and whatever is the sense of ambition that you nurture, whether there is any ongoing co-ordination between your sense of mission and your sense of ambition!
And therefore this burden of hankering for marks hinders us sometimes from going in the right direction.
But if something comes from outside those few things you had touched upon; a question comes which is outside the bunch of selected questions that you had prepared; you will be find yourself slipping to the rock bottom.
If you have pursuit of knowledge as your focal point, then by itself you try to acquire and attain a lot more.
It is a huge psychological battle.
He says that during exams, parents have a vital role to play.
What you say is right.
These shortcut ways become the reason for using unfair means.
Anyway, young friends, you are engrossed in preparing for your exams and here I am, engaging you in matters close to my heart.
Of course, it is quite possible that my words this morning will act as a relaxant for you.
Make headway with this Mantra.
My dear countrymen, on 1st February 2017, Indian Coast Guard is completing 40 years.
On this occasion I extend my heartfelt gratitude to all the officers and jawans of Coast Guard for their service to the Nation.
It is considered an occasion to worship Vidya, knowledge.
I extend my best wishes to my countrymen on the pious occasion of Vasant Panchami.
My dear countrymen, in ‘Mann Ki Baat’, All India Radio too infuses myriad novel hues of creativity and imagination.
Last month onwards, they have started broadcasting versions in regional languages, immediately after the broadcast of my ‘Mann Ki Baat’.
This has gained wide acceptance.
People are writing in from far and wide.
Protocol for Consultations between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and MEA for the period 2019-2023
Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation and the National Institution for Transforming India (NITI Aayog)
3. Exhibition on Futuristic Technologies and Space Exploration which offers a vision of the future of space travel.
Jayalalithaa ji’s connect with citizens, concern for welfare of the poor, the women & marginalized will always be a source of inspiration.
My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Tamil Nadu in this hour of grief.
May the Almighty grant them the strength to bear this irreparable loss with courage and fortitude.
The Prime Minister fondly recalled their last meeting in Malaysia in May 2018.
The Prime Minister also conveyed his warm regards to H. E. Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohamad, Prime Minister of Malaysia.
Prime Minister assured him of India’s full and constructive cooperation in discharging his new responsibilities.
The MoUs provide a platform for Indian Railways to interact and share the latest developments and knowledge in the railway sector.
Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister said that innovation has a key role to play in bringing the people of India and Israel, closer to each other.
The Prime Minister spoke of cooperation between India and Israel for innovation in areas such as food, water, health and energy.
“My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones due to the derailment of Jagdalpur-Bhubaneswar Express.
I pray for a speedy recovery of all those injured due to the train accident.
The Prime Minister offered deepest condolences on his behalf and on behalf of the people of India on the loss of precious lives in the recent earthquake and tsunami that hit the Sulawesi region of Indonesia.
President Widodo thanked the Prime Minister for the condolence and the offer of assistance.
Of late, News of abundant rainfall has been steadily coming in.
During the operation, a sailor from Thailand Navy sacrificed his life.
A few days ago, the country’s beloved poet Neeraj Ji left us forever.
Leaving home for the first time, moving out of one’s village, coming out of a protective environment amounts to taking charge of the course of one’s life.
This multitude of young people leave their homes for the first time to chart a new direction for their lives.
In his maiden attempt, he cracked the Entrance exam for MBBS at AIIMS, Jodhpur.
His father earns his daily bread by waste-picking.
I congratulate him on his success.
On reading further, I came to know how our youngsters put in efforts to transform the lives of the common man by making smart and creative use of technology.
I had made an appeal to change brain-drain into brain-gain.
We get the mantra to enable the society to fight against blind-faith through devotion and bhakti.
Lokmanya Tilak was full of courage and self-confidence.
He had the courage to show a mirror to the British about their wrong doings.
The celebration of Ganesh Utsav publicly had become an effective medium in promoting a spirit of social awakening, integration, amity and equality among the masses besides projecting a sense of dedication and festivity in them.
Such events gained more popularity with the passage of time.
Thus, it becomes clear that our younger generations still care for the brave heroes of our ancient past, its heritage and history.
Just a few days ago, in the Junior Under-20 World Athletics Championship in Finland, India’s brave daughter and a farmer daughter Hima Das made history by winning the gold medal in the 400-meter race event.
Ekta has won the gold and bronze medals in World Para Athletics Grand Prix 2018 held in Tunisia.
Her achievement is all the more special because she has made the imposing challenges in her life the key to her success.
Captain Nishad’s efforts for the progress of Bihar were noteworthy.
His work towards empowering the poor will always be remembered.