Along with this occasion, I hope that the delegates attending this ceremony from abroad will also take some time to see the history and glory of Delhi.
We are proud to be the global host on the occasion of World Environment Day 2018.
We are committed to raising the standard of living of our people.
This has freed the rural women from the agonizing condition of toxic fumes.
We are giving a huge boost to the production of renewable energy.
We are already the fifth largest producer of solar energy in the world.
India is also the world's sixth-largest producer of renewable energy.
We are a young nation.
In the last two years, we have seen a two per cent increase in tree and forest cover there.
We have also done well in terms of wildlife conservation.
Hence, continuous availability of water is important for agriculture.
Our principle is' production of more crops per drop of water '.
On the occasion of World Environment Day, it has been decided to take up an important challenge this year.
Plastic has now become a challenging contamination for human life.
Plastic pollution has now entered our food chain as well.
Now microplastics have entered our salt, bottled water and even tap water.
The per capita consumption of plastics in India is very low compared to many developed countries.
I hope all of these will continue to do exemplary work in controlling plastic pollution.
The choices we make today will determine the collective future of us all.
All of them are currently touring different parts of India under the "Watan Ko Jaano" initiative.
Interacting with them, the Prime Minister talked about the efforts being made to improve connectivity and infrastructure in the state.
The International Conference of Saurashtra Patel Cultural Society is being held in California, USA this year.
Praising the efforts of the diaspora, especially the Patel community of Saurashtra, the Prime Minister said that the diaspora has always made India proud.
He said that the efforts of the Indian diaspora have ensured respect for Indian passports everywhere in the world.
The Prime Minister said that various schemes of the government like Swachh Bharat have given a boost to the tourism sector in the country.
He appealed to the Indian diaspora to inspire at least five foreign families to visit India every year.
The Prime Minister said India will start celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on 2nd October.
Programmes like GST and stringent action on corruption have helped people do business with integrity.
He said that as a result of these programmes, India has jumped 42 places in the Ease of Doing Business index in the last 4 years.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development projects in Kutch today.
He has sacrificed his life in the service of the country.
My thoughts and every Indian's are with their families in this hour of grief.
It is also natural that now the country has expectations, there is a sense of being able to do something.
Our armed forces have been given complete freedom.
We have full faith in the valour and valour of our soldiers.
130 crore Indians will give a befitting reply to every such conspiracy, every such attack.
Our brave martyrs have laid down their lives.
He appealed to the people of Pakistan to fight corruption and counterfeit notes against their rulers.
The Prime Minister said that the Union Government will do everything possible to provide adequate water to farmers.
He added that India's water would not be available to Pakistan.
The Prime Minister tweeted that the Union Government has assured all possible support to the State Government of Bihar in mitigating the flood situation and the situation is being closely monitored.
The Prime Minister said, "My thoughts are with those affected by the floods in various parts of Bihar.
The situation is being closely monitored.
The Central Government has assured all possible support to the Government of Bihar in mitigating the flood situation.
He appreciated the people of Kashi for the warm welcome accorded to French President Emmanuel Macron.
He said Varanasi has immense potential for tourism and all efforts should be made to keep the city clean.
The Prime Minister further said that the recently announced Ayushman Bharat scheme is transforming the health sector.
It will provide high-quality health services to the poor.
At the outset, I would like to express my sadness at the loss of lives in the recent earthquake in Aceh.
You are the leader of a great nation.
As the world's most populous Muslim country, Indonesia has provided an example of democracy, diversity, and social harmony.
All these values are fundamental to a democratic nation.
The Joint Statement on Maritime Cooperation is the agenda of our partnership in this area.
Our partnership will also play an important role in curbing terrorism, organised crime, narcotics and human trafficking.
The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) regarding mutual cooperation.
Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister said that organizing such Unnati Melas plays an important role in paving a new path for New India.
He said that scientists and farmers need to work together to transform agriculture.
The Prime Minister specifically mentioned the state of Meghalaya, which received the award for its achievements in agriculture during the period under review.
The Prime Minister appreciated the hard work and passion of our farmers for achieving achievements in agriculture since the time of independence.
He said that the aim of the government is to double the income of the farmer and make the life of the farmers easier.
Speaking about the progress towards this resolution, the Prime Minister said that so far 11 crore Soil Health Cards have been distributed.
A 100% neem coating of urea has also been shown to be effective in increasing productivity as well as reducing fertilizer costs.
He said that through the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, premiums have been reduced, the ceiling on insurance has been removed and the amount given to farmers has also been increased.
He further said that the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana envisages providing water to every farm.
He said the Kisan Sampada Yojana will help strengthen the supply chain from farm to market and create modern infrastructure in agriculture.
He said that the recently announced Operation Green will be beneficial for farmers producing fruits and vegetables, especially tomatoes, onions and potatoes.
He said that the central government has decided that the minimum support price (MSP) for all the proposed crops will be one and a half times the original price of the crop.
The Prime Minister also stressed the importance of Farmer Producer Organizations.
He said that Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) will play an important role in this regard.
The Prime Minister said the government is working to ensure that adequate agricultural credit is available.
Respected Chairman, On behalf of the House and the countrymen, many congratulations and best wishes to you.
Today, 11 August is associated with an important date for history.
Aspects such as human mindset and behavioural mindset should be part of the training, he added.
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress in implementing the scheme for setting up new medical colleges affiliated to existing district / referral hospitals.
The Prime Minister said, "Deeply saddened by the loss of lives and damage caused by the tsunami that followed the volcanic eruption in Indonesia.
India has fulfilled its promise with the successful launch of the South Asia Satellite.
With the launch of this satellite, we have started the journey of taking our partnership to new heights.
Space technology will enhance the quality of life of our people in our region.
I will meet President Sirisena, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe and other distinguished dignitaries.
The Prime Minister said, "Saddened by the tragic accident in Etah district of UP.
This was the fourth interaction in the series by the Prime Minister through video bridge with various beneficiaries of government schemes.
The Prime Minister further said that adequate capital, entrepreneurship, and people-to-people contact are the most important things to succeed in any start-up sector.
Startups are exempt from income tax for three years.
Six labour laws and three environmental laws have been changed to only require young entrepreneurs to be self-certified.
School children from various Atal Tinkering Labs shared their innovations with the Prime Minister.
The Prime Minister congratulated the school children for their scientific prowess and encouraged them to come up with more such innovations.
He did his best to ensure Delhi's progress, especially in terms of infrastructure.
He established himself as a hard-working and people-friendly administrator in both Delhi and the central government.
He did incredible work for the service of refugees in Delhi after partition.
The Prime Minister said, "Greetings to the people of Meghalaya on their Statehood Day.
The people of Meghalaya have contributed significantly to the country.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has paid tributes to Bhagwan Birsha Munda on his birth anniversary.
This app has also proved to be beneficial for traders.
The Prime Minister said that Germany's cooperation is expected in the field of sports, and in particular in the field of football.
He said that Germany's innovation-reform and collaboration with the Indian youth will give a new impetus to the field of start-ups.
Responding to the conversation on climate change, the Prime Minister said that India has been nurturing and conserving natural resources for a very long time.
At this juncture, the Prime Minister also mentioned the Government of India's target of generating 175 GW of electricity from renewable sources by 2022.
Stressing on protecting and preserving nature, the Prime Minister said that "it is an immoral and criminal act to compromise the welfare of future generations."
Similarly, a joint statement covering each of the global issues was also issued.
The Prime Minister said that Pakyong Airport will provide easy connectivity to Sikkim.
He said that this airport is part of the UDAN scheme to ensure that the common man also uses this airport.
The Prime Minister said that emphasis is being laid on rapidly increasing infrastructure in the North Eastern Region and increasing connectivity with the rest of the country.
It includes the provision of a framework and conducive environment for understanding each other's strengths, markets, technologies, policies, etc.
The MoUs will provide a framework and help in building scientific collaborations between research and development and educational institutions of India and Canada.
Research and development projects will focus on catalyzing social change by providing alternatives through the use of science and technology.
Areas identified for mutual cooperation include safe and balanced infrastructure construction and integrated water management.
In 1817, there was a Paika rebellion against British rule in Odisha.
A chair on Paika Rebellion was announced to be established at Utkal University in Bhubaneswar.
He laid the foundation stone of pipeline and road projects.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that the total value of these various projects, inaugurated or for which foundation stones have been laid, is more than Rs 14,000 crore.
He said the Union Government aims to develop East India as a gateway to South-East Asia.
The Prime Minister said that IIT Bhubaneswar will accelerate industrial development in Odisha and improve the quality of life of the people by working for technology.
The Prime Minister mentioned plans to increase the healthcare infrastructure, road network, and oil and gas pipeline infrastructure in the state.
My dear countrymen, Namaskar to all of you.
"On World Toilet Day, we are committed to improving sanitation facilities in our country.
I salute all the individuals and organizations working for the construction of toilets in different parts of India.
He added that the Quit India Movement started in 1942 and was a decisive movement.
The Prime Minister quoted writer Ramvriksh Benipuri and poet Sohanlal Dwivedi to describe the mood prevailing among the people at that time.
Uttarakhand, however, has been a major centre of yoga for decades.
It is these mountains that continue to inspire yoga and Ayurveda.
Even an ordinary citizen, when he comes to this earth, has a different kind of divine realization.
There is wonderful energy, vibration, hypnosis in this holy stream.
From Dehradun to Dublin, from Shanghai to Chicago, from Jakarta to Johannesburg, yoga is yoga, yoga is yoga.
Whether it is the thousands of feet high mountains of the Himalayas or the sun-warmed deserts, yoga enriches every life in every situation.
This combines yoga with scattered life.
It works to connect.
In today's hectic life, yoga brings peace to one's life by connecting mind, body and intellect and spirit.
It brings happiness to the family by connecting the person with the family.
By making the families sensitive towards the society, it brings harmony in the society.
But if we do not have faith in our strength, in our potential, then no one will accept.
It is not possible in a family where the family will always reject the child and expect the street people to respect the child.
Friends, Yoga has shown the world the way from illness to health.
This is the reason why yoga is gaining acceptance at such a rapid pace all over the world.
If we practice asanas and pranayama regularly, we can avoid many diseases along with good health.
Regular yoga has a direct impact on any family's medical expenses.
It is our responsibility to further develop the understanding of yoga for a healthy and happy humanity.
The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Afghanistan on cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space.
The projects reviewed today included the construction of the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor and four new AIIMS at Mangalagiri in Andhra Pradesh, Kalyani in West Bengal, Nagpur in Maharashtra and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.
The Prime Minister also reviewed the progress of the Smart Cities Mission.
He appreciated the participation of cities in the challenge route.
My best wishes to the countrymen on this holy festival of Ram Navami.
Once again, I extend my best wishes to all of you on Ram Navami.
My dear countrymen, like every time, this time too, I have received all your letters, e-mails, phone calls and comments in large numbers.
I would also urge the listeners of 'Mann Ki Baat' who work in the context of Sanskrit to think about what can be done in the context of Komalji's suggestion.
It has the power to change the seasons of the entire country.
My dear countrymen, the coming few months are very important for farmer brothers and sisters.
This is the reason why many letters have come in the context of agriculture.
Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia spoke of mass awareness to ensure better income, better irrigation facilities and all that for our farmers and to increase food and milk production.
I went to the Krishi Unnati Mela held in Delhi recently.
He has shown that when the goal is set, the determination is high, and the resolve is in the mind, it can be achieved, it can be demonstrated.
Brothers and sisters, In this year's budget, a big decision has been taken to give farmers a fair price for their crops.
That is, in a way, a direct connection of any market in the country with the farm - such a system is being created.
The first requirement for a healthy life is cleanliness.
Yoga guarantees both fitness and wellness.
On the last three International Yoga Days, people from all over the country and the world participated with great enthusiasm.
My dear countrymen, I am not a yoga teacher.
Under the 'Ayushman Bharat Yojana', the government of India and the insurance company will jointly pay Rs 5 lakh a year for the treatment of about 10 crore families i.e. about 50 crore citizens.
New AIIMS are being opened in different states to provide better treatment and healthcare to people across the country.
A new medical college will be opened between each of the three districts.
Today, Mudra Yojana, Start-Up India, Stand-Up India initiatives are giving birth to our young innovators, young entrepreneurs.
It will have separate programmes on village development, poor welfare and social justice across India.
I request all of you to enthusiastically participate in this campaign.
The birth anniversary of Lord Mahavira is a day to remember his renunciation and penance.
Three, he wanted the private sector to be a partner in the distribution of the gas sector.
Speaking of technology, he appealed for assistance in high pressure and high temperature technology applications, which are relevant for commercial exploration of natural gas.
Emphasizing the importance of food processing, the Prime Minister said that the agriculture sector suffers greatly due to lack of infrastructure.
The Prime Minister said today marks the beginning of the Gujarati New Year, the day after Diwali.
He said that the awards also reflect the priority of the government.
The MoU will enable the Academy to share some of its expertise with NIPAM in operating a training institute for higher civil services in the country.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has condoled the passing away of Kalaignar Karunanidhi.
The Prime Minister said, "Congratulations to Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu Garu on being elected the Vice President of India.
Right now, I remember working with M. Venkaiah garu in the party and government.
He asked the Ministry of Urban Development to monitor this work with sensitivity.
His steadfast courage and patriotism have kept our country safe.
The meeting was attended by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, other senior ministers and top officials of the state government, disaster management agencies and the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).
Addressing the media at the Ahmedabad airport, the Prime Minister said that Gujarat has been receiving heavy rains for the past week.
The Prime Minister praised the state government and other agencies for their work in the flood situation so far.
He announced an additional immediate assistance of Rs.500 crores under SDRF.
He expressed confidence that the people and Gujarat would come out stronger and face the challenges of floods successfully.
The Prime Minister congratulated and welcomed all the teams participating in the FIFA U-17 World Cup.
The Prime Minister said, "Welcome and best wishes to all the teams participating in the FIFA U-17 World Cup.
He recalled holding mock parliaments in districts during Mann Ki Baat in December 2017.
He added that such mock parliaments will boost the spirit of debate among our youth.
He added that Swami Vivekananda raised his voice against social evils.
Our young generation will never be misled, the Prime Minister added.
The Prime Minister said it is the youth of India who have taken the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to new heights.
He added that India is a land of monks, who served the society and blew the winds of reform.
The Prime Minister said that the spirit of service is an integral part of our culture.
The MoU was signed on 25th September, 2018.
The Prime Minister said, I bow to Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan on his birth anniversary.
(b) Creation of an apex level post of Controller General of Communication Accounts (CGCA).
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that banking services through India Post Payments Bank will reach the remotest parts of the country and the people living there will have easy access to various services of the bank.
At the event, the Prime Minister recalled that earlier, the Union Government had launched the Jan-Dhan Yojana to establish financial inclusion.
He said the IPPB launched today is yet another initiative to achieve this objective.
The Prime Minister said that postmen or postmen have long held a respectable position in villages and have access to every household in the villages.
He said that despite the development of modern technology, the trust in postmen has remained intact.
They now have smartphones and digital devices to provide financial services.
He said that today India is the fastest growing economy in the world and at the same time, India is also rapidly becoming a poverty alleviation country.
The Prime Minister will also address a public meeting.
At the meeting, First Lady Kim congratulated the Prime Minister on receiving the Seoul Peace Prize.
The Prime Minister said that this honour truly belongs to Indian culture, Indian tradition and all Indians.
The first 100% literate city and the first 100% literate district is from Kerala.
All citizens in Kerala have received primary education and Kerala is the first state to achieve 100% primary education.
Kerala also has some of the oldest colleges, schools, and libraries in the country.
I believe that reading and information should not be limited to the task-related aspect.
The organization aims to reach 300 million disadvantaged people by 2022.
The main objective of this campaign is to promote reading as a medium of growth and prosperity.
Reading broadens a person's mindset or thinking, gives them wings, makes them wider.
A well-read civic community will help take India to the top of the world.
When I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, with this spirit, I started a campaign called Read Gujarat.
The campaign was specifically aimed at turning the younger generation towards reading.
I appealed to people to give books instead of bouquets as gifts.
From the Upanishad era to the present, enlightened men have gained respect in society.
Today, we live in the information age.
Even today, knowledge, information or information is a beacon.
I want to see this kind of reading and library campaign all over the country.
The objective of the campaign should not be limited to making people literate.
The campaign should achieve the real goals of bringing about social and economic change.
The foundation of knowledge should lead to the creation of a better structure of society.
I am happy to know that the State Government has declared 19th June as Reading Day.
Certainly, there will be a synergy of efforts to make this a popular activity.
The Government of India also supports the activities of the foundation.
I am told that in the last two years, about 1.2 crore rupees have been given to the foundation.
It has the potential to build a better society and country.
Atalji's unparalleled leadership laid the foundation for a strong, prosperous and inclusive India in the 21st century.
His far-reaching policies in various fields have touched the lives of every citizen of India.
Atalji's demise is a personal and irreparable loss to me.
I have innumerable memories with him.
He was an inspiration for an activist like me.
Mishmi-Kaman (Meju Mishmi) will be included.
Idu (Mishmi) and Teron (Digaru Mishmi) will be included.
Monpa, Memba, Sartang, Sajolong, (Miji) will be included in serial no. 9 instead of 'Momba'.
I am saddened and saddened by his death.
A total of 26 islands have been listed for full development.
The Prime Minister also congratulated all those associated with this remarkable achievement.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that it is really important that junior-most and senior-most officers spend so much time communicating with each other.
He urged all officials to accelerate the adoption of Government e-Marketplace (GeM) in their respective departments.
This, he said, would eliminate middlemen and result in savings for the government.
This was the seventh interaction by the Prime Minister through video conference with various beneficiaries of government schemes.
Today I have got the opportunity to launch a new Chartered Accountancy course curriculum.
This is the hallmark of the credibility of your dynamic course and exam.
I hope that the new course will enhance the financial skills of newcomers to this profession.
New laws have been made, old laws have been made more stringent.
Swiss banks have reported that deposits by Indians have hit an all-time record low.
I know very well how much any political party is harmed by a crackdown on black money, the scrapping of shell companies.
But someone has to take such a tough decision for the country.
According to an estimate, there are more than two crore engineers and management graduates in our country.
There are more than 8 lakh doctors.
For this, all of you will also have to take strict measures.
Thus, the judgement of each case is taking years to come.
Today, we cannot forget that the history of the country is incomplete without these great men.
The most important role on this historic occasion is that of Chartered Accountancy.
All of you Chartered Accountants are like a link connecting tax paying citizens and companies with the government.
The life of that old man who invests his pension money in a mutual fund is ruined.
Chartered accountants can start their career in a new field by becoming insolvency practitioners.
This is a new path that the government has opened for all of you.
You have never had an opportunity like this in your life.
Don't let this opportunity pass you by, friends.
It is the largest underground storage unit in the country.
The fully automated and state-of-the-art coastal installation project will ensure the safety of petroleum products for Andhra Pradesh.
The central government decided to celebrate 7th March 2019 as' Jan Aushadhi Diwas' across India to spread awareness and promote the use of generic medicines.
Interacting with beneficiaries and store owners spread across more than 5000 locations, the Prime Minister said that the government had taken two important steps to ensure that high-quality medicines were available at affordable prices.
First, the cost of 850 essential drugs was controlled and the cost of equipment for heart stents and knee surgery was reduced.
Secondly, a series of Jan Aushadhi Kendras were opened across the country.
The Prime Minister said that these measures had greatly benefited not only the poor but also the middle class.
The Prime Minister observed that medicines are available at Jan Aushadhi Kendras at fifty to ninety percent less than the market price.
Explaining the concept of holistic transformation of the health sector, the Prime Minister said that the government's approach is not just to talk but to provide solutions.
He said that all the stakeholders related to the sector are working together to transform the health sector.
During the interaction with the Prime Minister, the beneficiaries expressed happiness at the high quality of medicines available at the Jan Aushadhi Kendras.
The Supreme Court's ban on jallikattu was discussed in the meeting between the two.
While the Prime Minister acknowledged the cultural importance of jallikattu, he noted that the matter was sub judice.
The central government has assured to support all the steps of the state government.
The second edition of "Samvad," a global initiative on Conflict Avoidance and Environment Consciousness, is being held in Yangon today and tomorrow.
The Prime Minister said that if humans do not nourish nature, nature will respond in the form of climate change.
The Prime Minister said, "The world of the 21st century is interconnected and interdependent.
Gurus are highly respected in our society.
India has grown as a hub for start-ups and innovation.
The Indian youth have distinguished themselves the most because of their far-sighted vision and the idea of doing something new.
I would especially urge young friends to join in tomorrow's discussion.
This will promote and propagate the Indian traditional system of medicine in Colombia.
ASI has undertaken some major defence operations in various Asian countries.
This is the second bilateral visit of Prime Minister Modi to Germany.
India's economic reform agenda was praised, including the issue of GST.
The leaders reviewed regional and global issues.
Prime Minister Modi stressed the importance of cohesion in the European Union and its importance as an essential factor for stability in the world.
Congratulations to Tejaswini Sawant on winning Gold in the Women's 50m Rifle 3 Positions event.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that the Assistant Secretaries Programme provides an opportunity for junior and senior (junior and senior) officers to meet each other and interact on a wide range of issues.
The Prime Minister encouraged the Assistant Secretaries to imbibe the best of their experiences while working in various ministries in the future.
The Prime Minister encouraged the officers to develop a rapport with those who worked with them and those they met in the line of duty.
He told the officers that to succeed in tasks and objectives, it is important to develop a close relationship with the people.
Prime Minister Modi conveyed his best wishes for the progress and prosperity of the friendly people of Malaysia.
He said that the close and mutually beneficial India-Malaysia relations are based on a strong foundation of mutual values, interests and vibrant people-to-people ties.
He praised her for her dedication to education as well as making it a life mantra.
He said that a teacher is bound by the stream of knowledge for life.
During the interaction, the Prime Minister urged the awardees to unite the community and make them an integral part of orderly development.
He encouraged teachers to digitally transform their school and the environment around them.
Interacting with the Prime Minister, the awardees shared inspirational stories related to transforming their schools into centres of learning and excellence.
The Prime Minister will also dedicate and lay the foundation stone of a plaque for the construction of the Northern Regional Centre Campus of the Indian Institute of Mass Communication in Jammu.
Soundarya Lahari is a set of verses composed by Adi Shankaracharya.
Shlokas of Soundarya Lahari were recited en masse at the event.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that he feels a special energy from the divine atmosphere created by collective chanting.
He said that Adi Shankara established religious-spiritual unity throughout India through the Vedas and the Upanishads.
The Prime Minister said that the common man can relate to the Soundarya Lahari composed by Adi Shankara.
The Prime Minister said that Adi Shankara adopted best practices from different schools of thought and ideas.
The Prime Minister said that the successful launch of Agni-V makes every Indian proud.
This will greatly enhance the strength of our strategic defence.
Several Union Ministers and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, on Wednesday met and interacted with a group of over 80 Additional Secretaries and Joint Secretaries serving in the Government of India.
Five such meetings are to be held, of which this was the fourth.
It showcases the historically rich heritage of the people of India and the countries of ASEAN that have come together.
My Government's Act East Policy (i.e. Look East) is at the heart of our engagement.
We enjoy good political and people-to-people relations with each other and with every country in ASEAN.
The number of new taxpayers filing income tax returns has more than doubled.
We have used technology to reach out to people.
36 White businesses are no longer required to obtain environmental clearance.
At present, the company is formed in just one day.
We are now a full-fledged international economy.
In addition, some major recent reforms have already achieved these successes.
In July this year, we implemented the very complex task of transitioning to a uniform Goods and Services Tax (GST) for the entire country.
This has been implemented by eliminating a large number of taxes at the regional and central levels across India.
In one year, 197 bank accounts were opened.
As of August this year, 290 million such accounts have been opened in Indian banks.
More than 146 million people have direct access to cooking gas assistance in their bank accounts.
At present, the government uses Direct Benefit Transfer for 59 different schemes.
We want to build land, sea and air connectivity in this dynamic region.
International tourism from India to other countries of the world is growing rapidly.
On 15 August 2017, they unfurled the tricolour at Khardong La in Ladakh.
The Prime Minister released the Mission Work Plan for the Narmada River - Narmada Pravah.
Referring to the people and farmers of Gujarat and Maharashtra who have benefited from the Narmada River, the Prime Minister thanked the Government and people of Madhya Pradesh for the Narmada Seva Yatra.
In this context, Prime Minister Modi mentioned the International Solar Alliance and the joint efforts of India and France for this issue.
Prime Minister Modi described the Paris Agreement as a shared heritage agreement for the entire world, and the contribution of this generation as promising for future generations of mankind.
He said that it is our shared responsibility to preserve Mother Earth.
The Prime Minister said the two leaders also discussed countering terrorism and radicalisation.
We initiated the process of granting full membership to India at the SCO meeting in Tashkent last year.
The MoU was signed on 6 January 2017 in New Delhi.
In furtherance of his vision to promote the spirit of science, technology and innovation across the country, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will address this fifth Indian Science Congress after becoming the Prime Minister.
I also look forward to interacting with the Indian community in Portugal during this visit.
Somnath has over 20 lakh followers on social media.
Best wishes to all the countrymen on this auspicious festival.
I also want to make a special mention of the hard work of the brave jawans of the NDRF.
He has done a great job in this time of crisis.
The ability of the NDRF to handle the situation with their commitment and prompt decision-making has become a new centre of faith for every Indian.
The kind of affection, faith and grief for Atalji that emerged all over the country shows his huge personality.
For the last several days, the best aspects of Atal ji have come before the country.
This change led to two important changes in Indian politics.
First, the size of the Council of Ministers in the states was restricted to 15 per cent of the total assembly seats.
Atalji was a true patriot.
It was during his tenure that the timing of the presentation of the budget changed.
In 2001, Atal ji changed the time of presenting the budget from 5 pm to 11 am.
It is because of this that more and more Indians have got the opportunity to hoist their national flag.
In this way, he brought our beloved tricolor closer to the common people.
Whether it is the electoral process and removing the loopholes related to the representatives of the people, similarly, nowadays you see that the discussion is going on in the country about holding the central and state elections together.
People are expressing their views both for and against it.
On behalf of all of you, I pay tributes to Atalji, reiterating my resolve to fulfil the dream of a prosperous and developed India.
You will be happy to know that the productivity of the Lok Sabha was 118 per cent and that of the Rajya Sabha was 74 per cent.
This Monsoon Session of Parliament will always be remembered as a session on social justice and youth welfare.
The session saw the passage of several important bills benefiting the youth and backward classes.
No member society can tolerate any kind of injustice against the women power of the country.
The Act will play an effective role in curbing cases of crime against women and girls.
This time in the fourth session, everyone has presented a model together.
I want to congratulate all the players who have won medals for the country.
The Prime Minister said that former Prime Minister Vajpayee's vision of development was that all states were making rapid progress.
The Prime Minister said that the work of building toilets was carried out like a campaign.
This will allow for greater construction of residential and commercial complexes in the area.
In this context, he also recalled his meeting with the High Commissioner of India to Sri Lanka this morning.
IPPB will offer a variety of services such as savings and current account, money transfer, direct benefit transfer (DBT), bill and utility payments, and enterprise and merchant payments.
Addressing a public meeting in Ahmedabad on the occasion, the Prime Minister spoke at length about the aspiration and will for a "New India."
He congratulated the people of India on the occasion and said that the bullet train project will provide speed and progress and result faster.
He said the focus of the government is on increasing productivity through high-speed connectivity.
The Prime Minister thanked Japan for providing technical and financial assistance to India for the project.
He appreciated the fact that the project was launched in such a short span of time by Prime Minister Abe.
The Prime Minister said that this high-speed railway will bring people living hundreds of kilometers apart from the two cities closer to each other.
He said a new economic system is developing parallel to the Mumbai-Ahmedabad corridor and the entire area will become an economic zone.
The Prime Minister said that technology is useful only if it benefits the common citizen.
He said the "High-Speed Corridor" will be an area for rapid growth in the future.
He expressed confidence that everyone will work together to complete the project in the shortest possible time.
Earlier, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said that the India-Japan partnership is special, strategic and global.
He also unveiled a roadmap for the development of the tribes for the next five years.
Along with Kathmandu, I will also visit Janakpur and Muktinath.
Both these places attract a large number of pilgrims every year.
He is a living witness to the ancient and strong cultural and religious ties between the people of India and Nepal.
I am going to meet political leaders and friends in Nepal.
He said navies from 50 countries participated in the International Fleet Review organized by the Indian Navy in 2016.
He said our armed forces are conducting an average of 10 major joint exercises with the armies of friendly countries every year.
He said that Indian military might and our international partnership are responsible for the major decline in piracy in the Indian Ocean.
The Prime Minister said that in addition to the National War Memorial, a National Police Memorial has also been established.
The central government has given due respect to great national leaders including Sardar Patel, Babasaheb Ambedkar and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today laid the foundation stone of multiple projects of the Government of India and the Government of Jharkhand, at an event in Sindri.
This includes:
You may well remember that a contingent of six women commanders of the Navy had been on a sea voyage for the past several months.
Who doesn't know the sense of adventure.
I heartily congratulate the school people of Chandrapur, these young friends of mine.
Recently, 16-year-old Shivangi Pathak became the youngest Indian woman to scale Everest on behalf of Nepal.
Many congratulations to Beti Shivangi.
Ajit Bajaj and his daughter Diya became the first Indian father-son duo to scale Everest.
Today everyone is joining this campaign of Fit India.
The same game is known by different names, in different places.
The game was played in almost every state.
On this Environment Day, let us all think about whether we can do something to keep our planet clean and green.
In many parts of the country, our soldiers and farmers showed their valour and became determined to protest against injustice.
Sadly, for too long, we have only called the events of 1857 a mutiny or sepoy mutiny.
In fact, the incident was seen as an act of disregard, but it was also an attempt to hurt our self-esteem.
It was Veer Savarkar who fearlessly wrote that whatever happened in 1857 was not a rebellion but the first war of independence.
The heroes of London's India House, including Savarkar, celebrated its 50th anniversary with pomp.
The daughters there are stitching ordinary to fine clothes in addition to their own and their family's clothes today.
She is also doing a skill development course with him.
A modest tea seller, today you will be surprised to know that more than 70 children are bringing the light of education into their lives.
You too will have a series of such inspiring events around you.
There will be countless events.
Let us take the positivity forward.
In addition to the BRICS meetings, bilateral talks with heads of various countries are also planned.
Today, the popularity of solar energy in India is growing rapidly. "
The Prime Minister said, "Rani Lakshmibai is a source of inspiration for every Indian.
His fortitude during adversities and his steadfast opposition to colonialism will never be forgotten.
It is because of such great people that India has achieved independence.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has bowed to Babu Jagjivan Ram on his birth anniversary.
We will welcome the new year 2017 in a few hours.
125 crore citizens of India will celebrate the new year with new resolutions, new zeal, new zeal, new dreams.
Our country will witness the historic Shuddha Yajna immediately after Diwali.
With the patience and determination of 125 crore countrymen, this Shuddhi Yagna will play an important role in shaping the direction of the country for many years to come.
Usually, when there is a movement to make the future of the country bright, the government and the people come face to face.
Your love is like a blessing to me.
Now in the new year, efforts will be made to bring the banks back to normalcy quickly.
All responsible persons related to this subject in the government have been asked to focus on normalizing the banking system.
Don't you think the movement of honesty needs to be given more impetus for the good of the country?
If we remain vigilant, we will be able to prevent our children from going to the abyss of violence and tyranny.
They will not be let off.
In order to realize this motto of Sabka Saath-Sabka Vikas, the government is bringing some new schemes for 125 crore citizens of the country on New Year's Eve.
The Rabi crop has increased by 6% this year as compared to last year.
Now some more important decisions have also been taken in the interest of farmer brothers.
Now that the Kisan Credit Card will be converted into a RuPay card, the farmer will be able to buy and sell through his card from anywhere.
This decision of the government will give more credit to small shopkeepers, small industries.
Since the cost of the guarantee is borne by the central government, the interest rate on it will also be lower.
The government has also asked banks to increase the cash lending limit for small businesses from 20% to 25%.
In addition, it has also been asked to increase the working capital loan on digital transactions from 20% to 30%.
Last year, about 3.5 crore people have taken advantage of it.
Now the time has come for all political leaders and political parties to understand the anger of the people by respecting the sentiments of the honest citizens of the country.
It is true that political parties have also made meaningful efforts to reform the system from time to time.
Now the time has come to discuss this matter, to find a way.
There is always room for every positive change in our country.
Now there is a lot of positive change in the society for digital transactions as well.
BHIM stands for Bharat Interface for Money.
After some time, the new year of 2017 will begin.
Satyagraha movement was first started in Champaran 100 years ago in 1917 under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi.
The new ray of the new year is coming with resolutions of new successes.
He also wished the children a happy Vishwakarma Jayanti and said that it is important to learn different skills.
He encouraged children to study and take an interest in sports.
In the evening, the Prime Minister took a stroll through the streets of Varanasi and assessed the development of the city.
The Prime Minister said, "Strongly condemn the terrorist attack in Kabul.
My heart goes out to the families of the victims.
Support in human resource development and establishment of health facilities.
Exchange and training of doctors, officials, other health professionals and experts.
Support in the development of human resources and health services and the establishment of health facilities.
Short-term training of human resources in health
Regulation for the Exchange of Medicine, Medical Devices and Instruction
Availability of health equipment and medicinal products
Training and Research for Food Industry Managers
To inform and educate the citizens on hygiene and food safety and healthy eating habits.
Other areas of cooperation as mutually decided
The Prime Minister interacted with people in Kavaratti and Kanyakumari during the day.
Here, people gave him detailed information about the hardships and hardships they faced due to the cyclone.
The Prime Minister said the Union Government will support the cyclone-affected states through a relief package.
The Central Government will provide immediate financial assistance of Rs.325 crores to meet the needs of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Lakshadweep.
The financial assistance announced by the Prime Minister today is in addition to the assistance of Rs.280 crores to Tamil Nadu and Rs.76 crores to Kerala, which was disbursed to both the States / UTs earlier this month immediately after Cyclone Ockhi.
Insurance companies have also been instructed to pay insurance compensation claims of those affected by Cyclone Ockhi immediately.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate the newly constructed Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre at Banaras University.
The hospital will provide complete yet affordable cancer care to patients in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttarakhand, and the neighbouring country of Nepal.
The Prime Minister will also inaugurate the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital Lehratara.
With the inauguration of both cancer hospitals in Varanasi, the town has become an important centre for quality cancer treatment and care for other cancer-related ailments.
The Prime Minister will first launch the new Bhabhatron Precision Technology (Multi Leaf Collimator).
They will distribute certificates among the beneficiaries of various schemes.
They will also distribute assistive devices to persons with disabilities.
We are extremely pleased to have the opportunity to expand our partnership with the Bank and its members.
The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank started its financial operations in January 2016.
As developing countries, we face similar challenges.
AIIB's investments in sustainable infrastructure development are impacting the lives of billions of people.
Institutions such as the AIIB can play an important role in generating resources to help bring about regional multilateralism.
It was a good start.
India is one of the world's largest investment-friendly economies.
Investors want growth and stability.
They want stable politics and a cooperative structure to ensure their investments are protected.
With a large amount of performance and high profitability, investors also crave the size of the domestic market, skilled personnel, and good infrastructure.
India is emerging as a key location for the global economy and is also driving global growth.
India is currently the third-largest country in purchasing power parity.
India's growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2017 has been 7. 7 per cent.
We had expected a growth rate of 7. 4 per cent.
Inflation remains within the limits despite rising oil prices.
The government is committed to the path of fiscal consolidation.
The government's debt as a percentage of GDP is falling.
India's rating has improved after a long wait.
The outlying areas have been healthy.
Our foreign exchange rate of over US $400 billion provides us with adequate protection.
According to UNCTAD's World Investment Report, India is currently one of the world's leading FDI destinations.
From a foreign investor's point of view, India is considered to be the least risky political economy.
The government has taken a number of steps to boost investment.
These and other such reforms have been noted by the global community.
In the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business 2018 report, India has jumped 42 ranks in the last three years and is now among the top 100 countries.
There is a lot of potential in the size and growth of the Indian market.
India's per capita income has doubled in the last ten years.
We have over 300 million middle-class customers.
This number is expected to double in the next ten years.
India's size and needs have given the investor an added advantage of the economy.
The housing program in India, for example, has a target of one crore houses in urban areas.
This is why the use of new technology in building construction provides an added advantage if attempted in India.
Another example of this scale is the renewable energy programme in India.
We have set a target of 175 GW of renewable energy capacity by the year 2022.
More renewable energy has been added to what was energy in 2017.
Through the International Solar Alliance, we are adding to the mainstream with a collective effort.
Earlier this year, a conference of this alliance met in New Delhi.
The alliance has set a target of 1,000 GW of solar capacity with an investment of US $1 trillion by 2030.
India is working on e-mobility.
This year we are hosting the Global Mobility Conference.
I hope this will help us move forward.
In India, we are improving connectivity at all levels.
Bharatmala Yojana aims to improve road connectivity and for this, National Corridors and Highways are being constructed.
Special freight corridors have been created to reduce the burden on the railway network.
BharatNet aims to provide last mile internet connectivity in the country.
Our United Payments Interface system or UPI and BHIM app and RuPay card showcase the potential of India's digital economy.
More than 100 public service areas are available to the countrymen on their mobile phones through the UMANG app.
Our target is to provide every poor and homeless person with a house with toilets, water and electricity by 2022.
We are looking at various effective strategies for waste management.
This will benefit 100 million poor and disadvantaged families with $7000 in insurance annually.
Our health-related schemes will also create a large number of jobs.
This will encourage manufacturing of high-quality medicines and other medical technology equipment.
I can see a lot of benefits in this area for investors.
India's talk of revival touches most Asian countries as well.
Now the Indian subcontinent is at the heart of global economic activity.
It has now become a major engine of growth in the world.
Indeed, as many now say, this is the "Asian century."
A 'New India' is emerging.
And look forward to continuing the partnership with all other development partners now, including the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
BIMSTEC is a natural forum for regional cooperation.
The 10 questions in the survey are as follows:
The Prime Minister took stock of the flood situation during a meeting with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state government officials.
After the review, the Prime Minister announced a financial assistance of Rs.500 crores to the state.
This is in addition to the 100 crore assistance announced by the Home Minister on 12.08.2018.
The Prime Minister directed the insurance companies to conduct special camps to assess the damage quickly so that the affected families / beneficiaries get timely compensation under social security schemes.
A request from the state government to increase the human days as per the estimated requirement of the state will be considered.
Under the campaign for Integrated Horticulture Department, assistance will be provided to farmers for restoration of damaged horticultural crops.
The central government is constantly monitoring the flood situation in Kerala.
All possible help is being provided to the state government to deal with all difficult situations.
The Prime Minister is in constant touch with the Chief Minister regarding the flood situation.
57 teams of NDRF have been deployed with around 1300 officers and 435 boats engaged in search and rescue operations.
Five (5) companies of BSF, CISF and RAF have been pressed into service to carry out relief and rescue operations in the state.
The Prime Minister appreciated the efforts of the state government in meeting the challenges posed by the extraordinary situation.
They thanked Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel for the warm welcome and hospitality extended during the visit.
I have been informed that in the 13th century, the Indian Sufi saint Baba Farid came to Jerusalem and meditated in a cave, he said.
The Prime Minister described the relations between India and Israel as traditional, cultural, trustworthy and friendly.
The Prime Minister noted the unprecedented strides Israel has made in the field of technology, and the long tradition of courage and martyrdom.
He recalled that Indian soldiers played an important role in liberating Haifa during World War I.
The Prime Minister also informed about the recent reforms undertaken by India.
He mentioned the implementation of GST, the country's biggest ever economic reform in indirect taxes, auctions of natural resources, reforms undertaken in the insurance and banking sector, and skill development.
He said the government aims to double farmers' income by 2022.
The work will be completed in a period of 36 months.
Both sides reiterated that India and Russia, as multicultural, multilingual and multi-religious societies, have harmonised civilizational wisdom to address current challenges.
More connectivity has been established between the two countries than ever before and they are contributing to building a wider world.
The two countries called on all countries to reduce global tensions and promote the ideals of tolerance, cooperation, transparency, and openness in inter-state relations.
The two sides stressed that the main challenges in large parts of the world are rapid and environmentally sustainable economic growth, poverty eradication, reducing inter-country and intra-country disparities, and providing basic healthcare.
India and Russia resolved to cooperate with each other to achieve these goals.
Both sides welcomed the deployment of pharmaceutical machinery by the Advanced Pharma Company in Russia.
The Indian side expressed its desire to increase the import of minerals from Russia.
Both sides underscored the importance of enhancing cooperation in the field of aluminium.
Both sides welcomed the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the National Small Industries Corporation of India and the Small and Medium Business Corporation of Russia.
The Russian side offered to provide skilled services in tax coordination with the help of satellite-based technologies aimed at joint projects in India, incorporating the framework of the above-mentioned industrial corridors.
The Russian side expressed interest that Russia would like to participate in an international competitive bidding process when the Ministry of Railways of India decides on plans to increase train speeds.
Both sides stressed the importance of cooperation in the field of transport education, personnel training and scientific support for the implementation of international transport corridors.
To this end, the two sides emphasized the need for cooperation between the National Institute of Railways and Transport (Vadodara) and the Russian Transport University (MIIT).
The two sides agreed to convene an INSTC Ministerial and Coordination meeting on a priority basis.
Once the scheme is launched, the border tax administrations of both countries will be committed to taking it forward.
Both sides appreciated the efforts to strengthen and institutionalize cooperation between the states of India and the regions of Russia.
Both sides examined recent investments by Indian companies in the diamond manufacturing sector in the Russian Far East.
Both sides agreed to explore opportunities for joint cooperation in precious metals, minerals, natural resources, cane forest products through joint investment, manufacturing, processing and skilled labour.
The Russian side invited the Indian side to invest in the Far East.
The Indian side welcomed the decision to open an office of the Far East Agency in Mumbai.
An Indian delegation led by Shri Suresh Prabhu, Minister of Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation participated in the Eastern Economic Forum in September 2018.
A high-level Russian delegation will visit India to promote Indian investment in the Far East and to organise an investment roadshow.
Science and technology
Both sides committed to maintain mutual support and coordination in various fora, including in BRICS and ITU.
Both sides expressed interest in the development of mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of joint scientific research, including in the Arctic and other areas.
Both sides expressed satisfaction at the long-standing cooperation between Indian and Russian scientists in the Antarctic.
He appealed that all issues related to Iran's nuclear program could be resolved peacefully and through dialogue.
They reiterated the key role of the United Nations, including the 'High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development', in coordinating as well as reviewing the global implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
Both sides committed to further strengthening non-proliferation at the global level.
Russia extended its support for India's membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
Both sides stressed the importance of maintaining multilateral dialogue on the subject within the framework of the East Asia Summits and other regional fora.
Both sides underlined that the participation of the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi, in the SCO Heads of Government Meeting held in Qingdao in June 2018 reflects India's successful participation in the functioning of the Organization as a full-fledged member.
Both sides agreed to strengthen cultural and humanitarian ties within the SCO.
The athletes met the Prime Minister at Parliament House in New Delhi.
The Prime Minister congratulated the medal winners for their outstanding contribution at the international level.
By way of exchange
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has condoled the loss of lives due to a bus accident in Mandya, Karnataka.
My condolences to the families of the deceased.
My participation in this summit demonstrates our commitment to the highest priority for India's neighbourhood and our deepening ties with neighbouring countries in South-East Asia.
He added that Vietnam is an important nation in India's "Act East" policy.
Most of the beneficiaries reported a major improvement in their quality of life.
He will attend a function to celebrate the completion of one year of the state government.
They will publish a document highlighting the achievements of the government.
The Prime Minister will address a public meeting at Dharamshala in Kangra district.
President Ghani expressed his condolences to the families of the martyred soldiers.
The launch of Swachhata Hi Seva Abhiyan today is aimed at promoting large public participation for cleanliness.
This year marks the 150th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
Last year was the birth centenary year of Nelson Mandela ji and last year was also the silver jubilee of our diplomatic relations.
He was the Vice President then and it was during that first visit that I experienced his enthusiasm and affection for India.
I experienced his gracious hospitality during the BRICS Summit in South Africa last year.
Trade and investment relations between us are deepening.
Our bilateral trade is more than $10 billion.
We are also partners in South Africa's skill development efforts.
Looking at the world map, it is clear that both India and South Africa are located in very important places in the Indian Ocean.
We are both democratic countries full of diversity.
Our internal cooperation and coordination is very strong in many forums like BRICS, G-20, Indian Ocean Rim Association, IBSA, etc.
We are also working together on UN Security Council reforms.
Not only me, but the whole of India and the whole of South Africa is eager to hear the thoughts of the President.
The presence of President Ramaphosa on Republic Day tomorrow and the partnership as the Chief Guest is a symbol of our mutual commitment to further strengthen our relations.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today attended the Sahakar Sammelan in New Delhi, to mark the birth centenary celebrations of Shri Laxmanrao Inamdar.
He said that Shri Inamdar realised this principle and his life is a source of inspiration.
He said the cooperative movement can play a major role in achieving these objectives.
The Prime Minister stressed the importance of maintaining the "spirit" of the cooperative movement, which has kept rural areas united.
He recalled Shri Inamdar's mantra of 'Bina Sanskar, Nahi Sahakar'.
The Prime Minister said today, farmers shop in retail, but sell in wholesale.
Citing the example of dairy cooperation, he said the cooperative movement has the potential to solve people's problems.
He added that the cooperative movement is in tune with the nature of Indian society.
First of all, many congratulations to all of you for organizing an international conference on such a great topic as consumer protection.
This is the first of its kind event in South Asia.
I am also grateful to UNCTAD, which has taken this initiative of India forward with strength and played an active role in taking it to this form.
It has a theme of consumer protection, which is an important factor in increasing and strengthening trade in this sector.
Friends, It is also a matter of great pleasure for the United Nations to come forward as a partner in this entire process.
No matter what the business is, its sole purpose should be customer satisfaction.
The capacity of the National Customer Helpline has been increased 4 times.
Portals and social media related to consumer protection have also been integrated.
A large number of private companies are also joining the portal.
Jaago Grahak Jaago - Through this campaign also, a comprehensive effort to make customers aware has been going on continuously.
Friends, In my view and that of our government, the scope of consumer protection is very wide.
Ujjwala Yojana for clean energy to the people of the country, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan for health and sanitation, Jan Dhan Yojana for financial inclusion, these are many such schemes; they reflect similar sentiments.
The government is also working extensively to ensure that by 2022, when India celebrates 75 years of independence, every person in the country has a house of their own.
Recently, a very big step has also been taken to provide electricity connections to every household in the country.
And then the doctors say that just like in mechanical engineering, change the equipment, change the equipment, and then they pay a very long, big bill. We arranged for it, reduced the prices.
Friends, Curbing inflation has also brought economic benefits to the poor and middle-class consumers.
Look at the time of inflation which was increasing rapidly, 2012-13, 11, 12, 13, if it had increased at the same speed, then how much would be the price of pulses today, if you calculate it, then any big economist also wonders how the people of India eat?
Here on this occasion, I would like to specifically tell my colleagues from other countries about the Give It Up - Quit scheme.
Through Make in India, we are also giving a platform and inviting global companies to manufacture in India and make better use of the huge human resources here.
Friends, This is the first such conference in this part of the country.
Inter-border transactions are steadily increasing due to e-commerce and increasing cross-border movement of people.
It is equally important to have a cooperative framework to expedite the processing of matters relating to customers from other countries.
This will increase mutual trust and trust is the first condition of business.
Creating infrastructure for dialogue, exchanging best practices, taking new steps for capacity building, and launching joint campaigns are topics that can be worked on with mutual interests in mind.
Friends, The mutual heritage of our culture and trade will be as strong in the future as the emotional bond between us.
The Prime Minister then inaugurated the Patanjali Research Institute in Haridwar district.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that we will not lose sight of or forget our historical heritage.
He added that the spirit of innovation of our ancestors must remain intact.
The Prime Minister said that hygiene is one of the most important aspects of preventive healthcare.
At Bhilai, the Prime Minister will dedicate the modern and expanded Bhilai Steel Plant.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate air services between Jagdalpur and Raipur.
He will also address a public meeting.
He will also flag off a new express train from Ayodhya to Rameshwaram (via video conference).
The Prime Minister will unveil the synopsis of the Green Rameswaram project.
These are just a few examples.
A teacher asked the Prime Minister what teachers should say to parents who are feeling stressed and have unrealistic expectations about their children's exams.
The Prime Minister said that spiritual institutions in India are centres of social reform.
He described tourism as an ancient concept and spiritual tradition of India.
The MoU will further strengthen bilateral cooperation between the two countries.
The Prime Minister will also dedicate to the nation the Western-North Inter-Regional Power Transmission Line built to ensure uninterrupted supply of power to western Uttar Pradesh.
Under the government's plan to ensure clean drinking water supply for all, the Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of a scheme for piped water supply in rural areas of the Bundelkhand region.
The scheme is also significant in the sense that it will provide water supply to the drought-affected Bundelkhand region.
The Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of a 425 km doubling project on the Jhansi-Manikpur and Bhimsen-Khairar sections.
This will facilitate the movement of trains as well as help in the overall development of the Bundelkhand region.
The Prime Minister explained how his government is focusing on ease of doing business and ease of living for citizens.
He expressed happiness at the large presence of Japanese companies in India.
He said India is now the fastest growing major economy.
The Prime Minister emphasised the values between India and Japan.
So that all the departments and regions will get its benefit.
Minister Li Drian briefed the Prime Minister on the current state of bilateral defence cooperation.
He recalled the various steps taken by the Union Government in the last three years, including demonetisation, against black money and to curb elements involved in corruption.
The Prime Minister said that after demonetisation, the government has received a huge amount of data, during the scrutiny of which three lakh companies have come to the notice of the Income Tax Department.
Dr. Abdul Momen briefed the Prime Minister on the recent progress in bilateral relations between India and Bangladesh.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that relations between the two countries have progressed a lot in the last few years.
I am thrilled to lead India's delegation as a full member to the first-ever meeting of the Council.
It also recommended deletion of the company's name from the list of registrars of companies after fulfilling the obligations of TSPL.
He appreciated the officers who were instrumental in facilitating this change.
The Prime Minister said that the conference has now become more relevant, especially in the context of the country's challenges and responsibilities.
He said the new constitution of the council has resulted in an improvement in the quality of debate.
Appreciated the arrangements related to the work being done for the security system of the country.
He said that officers who often work in a negative environment have gathered today and provided leadership.
He said that this conference helps in giving a more holistic view of the problems and challenges to the top police officers.
He said this would help improve the effectiveness of the conference.
During the visit, the women sailors gave presentations about various aspects of their expedition, its preparation, training and experiences.
The Prime Minister congratulated the campaign for its success.
He inspired them to write and share their thoughts about this unique experience.
Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Sunil Lanba was also present on the occasion.
While financial assistance worth 2 lakh will be provided to the family of each deceased, 50,000 will be provided to those seriously injured in flood-affected areas.
He then watched an audio-visual presentation of the experiences of selected beneficiaries of various schemes of the Government of India and the Government of Rajasthan.
Addressing a large gathering of enthusiastic people, the Prime Minister said that he witnessed first-hand how Rajasthan welcomes its guests today.
He said that the happiness of the beneficiaries seen in today's presentation was felt by all present here.
The Prime Minister spoke at length about how the Union Government is working for the welfare of farmers.
In this way, national assets will be used in the best national interest.
The remaining portion of the land will be managed as per the guidelines of the Department of Investment and Government Asset Management (DIPAM) and Department of Government Enterprises (DPE).
Would this have been possible if a new era of honesty had not begun in the country, in the country's economy?
Now some people might say why did you take only two years?
Today, foreign investors are making record investments in India.
I want to assure you that the steps taken by the government are going to put the country in a new league of development in the years to come.
You may also be aware of the administrative and financial steps the government has to take in building highways.
These figures show how the government has stepped out of policy paralysis and assumed the role of policy maker and policy implementer.
If we talk about the three years of this government, more than 22 thousand megawatts of new renewable energy capacity has been connected to the grid power.
There are projects that show our commitment to provide houses to the poor, to the middle class.
The government is also emphasizing on how to bring more foreign capital to India.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister congratulated the gathering for celebrating Dhanwantari Jayanti as Ayurveda Day.
He congratulated the Ministry of AYUSH for setting up the All India Institute of Ayurveda.
The Prime Minister stressed that a country cannot progress unless it values and preserves its history and heritage.
He added that countries that have forgotten their culture have lost their identity.
The Prime Minister said that when India was not independent, its knowledge and its traditions like Yoga and Ayurveda were forgotten.
He added that there were attempts to make Indians forget these traditions or lose faith in them.
He said more than 65 AYUSH hospitals have been developed in the last three years.
He added that the central government has allowed 100 per cent FDI in the healthcare system.
The Prime Minister said the government is focused on providing affordable healthcare to the poor.
The emphasis is on providing preventive healthcare, easy treatment at an affordable cost.
He said sanitation is the simplest form of preventive healthcare.
He said the central government has built 5 crore toilets in three years.
The Prime Minister said the aim of setting up the new AIIMS is to provide the best healthcare facilities to the poor.
He will address farmers, scientists, entrepreneurs, students, government officials and MPs.
Biofuels can help reduce dependence on crude oil imports.
He flagged off the 900th coach and Humsafar coach at a public meeting.
He dedicated, inaugurated or laid the foundation stone of various development projects in Rae Bareli.
He described the Constitution of India as the core of the structure of our democratic polity.
The Prime Minister said that the Constitution is the guardian of our country.
He stressed that we, the people of India, must work towards living up to the expectations placed on us by our Constitution.
He said that the constructive environment should be used expeditiously to build a New India.
He said that Lok Adalats can play an important role in reducing the number of pending cases in the judiciary.
He suggested some other measures needed to be reformed so that "justice could be delivered easily and in a timely manner."
The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of an Agreement between India and Ukraine on cooperation in the field of agriculture and food industry.
I condemn the violence and appeal to everyone to maintain peace.
The law and order situation is being closely monitored.
He stressed the importance of positive news for a vibrant and prosperous country.
He said that various projects worth Rs 12 lakh crore are progressing at such a fast pace.
He stressed that laws and regulations would be followed in the wake of the operation.
In this context, he referred to the Code of Conduct for Bankruptcy and Insolvency.
He told the medal winners that their success had enhanced both India's pride and stature.
He hoped that the medal winners will always remain humble and not be distracted by fame and honours.
During the meeting, the Prime Minister urged the athletes to use technology as an enabler to improve their performance.
He said that the biggest challenge for medal winners now is the Olympics, for which they have to start preparing and they should never forget their goal in this sport.
As an experienced parliamentarian, he enriched parliamentary proceedings.
He was an influential voice of Karnataka's aspirations in Delhi.
My dear countrymen, Namaskar.
I commend the Election Commission for its sustained efforts to strengthen our democracy.
My dear countrymen, today when we are discussing about Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and that too in 'Mann Ki Baat', I want to tell you a story related to the life of Netaji.
A visual art museum has also been built in this Kranti Mandir.
Recently, 30 nano satellites were launched.
Earlier, he had expressed grief over the loss of lives in the forest fires in Portugal.
No new funding has been approved.
Prime Minister Modi appreciated Carter's contribution to strengthening defence ties between India and the United States.
In their meeting, the Prime Minister also recalled his successful visit to the United States in June this year.
They reaffirmed India's commitment to a strong and progressive bilateral strategic partnership with the United States.
Defence Secretary Carter briefed the Prime Minister on the progress made in advancing the agreements and decisions reached between the two countries in June this year.
The MoU will be another step towards tie-ups with Saudi Arabian institutions to attract potential investment in the infrastructure sector in the country.
The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Singapore on cooperation in the field of urban planning and development.
The MoU was signed on 31st May, 2018.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister congratulated all the recipients of the prestigious Gandhi Peace Prize.
He noted that these awards are being conferred at a time when India is celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
The Prime Minister expressed happiness that on this occasion, the Bhajan 'Vaishnav Jan To Tene Re Kahiye', which was most dear to Bapu, was performed by artists from about 150 countries all over the world.
He said this shows that even in today's time, the world accepts Gandhi's values and ideals.
The Prime Minister also spoke of Mahatma Gandhi's insistence on cleanliness.
The Prime Minister mentioned that the freedom movement became a mass movement only because of the visionary efforts of Mahatma Gandhi.
He added that Mahatma Gandhi combined both the trends of Jan Bhagidari and Jan Andolan.
Under the scheme, interest subvention will be provided to the borrower for loans up to Rs 2 lakh.
The Prime Minister appreciated the close bilateral relations in areas such as investment, urban development, civil aviation, and skill development.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate modern food processing facilities in Anand, including Amul's state-of-the-art chocolate plant.
The Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone for expansion of Amul's manufacturing facilities in Anand and Khatraj.
He will address the gathering on the occasion.
The Prime Minister will then proceed to Anjar.
The Prime Minister will also unveil a plaque to mark the inauguration of a government housing project of 624 houses.
They will witness the e-Gruh Pravesh of 240 beneficiary families.
I especially welcome and thank the 15 fellow countries for this edition of Vibrant Gujarat.
A number of conferences and discussions have been planned on various topics.
This suggests that international bilateral cooperation is no longer limited to the national capital, but has now expanded to the capitals of our different states.
Like the fastest growing economies, our challenges in India will also increase at all levels.
What we have proved, we are still counted among the fastest growing economies in the world.
Major international financial institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), as well as several well-known agencies such as Moody's, have expressed their confidence in India's economic journey.
We are focused on removing the barriers that prevented us from achieving our full potential.
India is now counted among the most liberal countries in terms of foreign direct investment (FDI).
Most sectors of our economy are now open to FDI.
More than 90% of approvals are received on the automatic route.
With these measures, our economy has now moved rapidly on the path of development.
During the last two years, we have been moving towards a lower tax regime in corporate terms.
Our 'Make in India' initiative has received extensive support from other investment programmes such as Digital India and Skill India.
In terms of power supply, India is the fifth largest producer of renewable energy in the world.
India is the fourth-largest producer of wind energy and the fifth-largest producer of solar energy.
We look forward to investing in next-generation infrastructure, including roads, ports, railways, airports, telecommunications, digital networks, and energy.
Road connectivity in rural areas is now 90%.
We are giving loans to small entrepreneurs without any kind of collateral or guarantee.
Now every village in our country has access to electricity.
The Ayushman Bharat scheme will provide extensive investment opportunities in health-related infrastructure, medical device manufacturing, and healthcare.
There is a great need for roads, railways and sea routes.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, on Thursday reviewed progress in key infrastructure sectors, including PMGSY, housing, coal and power.
During the presentation made by the CEO of NITI Aayog, it was informed that significant progress has been made in some areas.
During the review of the coal sector, the Prime Minister called for renewed efforts towards underground mining and coal gasification using the latest technology inputs.
During their meeting, the Prime Minister greeted President Mirziyoyev and his delegation in Gujarat.
Congratulations to ISRO on the successful launch of GSAT-11, India's heaviest, largest and most advanced communication satellite.
The MoU was signed in April, 2017.
The MoU will be applicable for a period of five years.
Either party may revoke it by notifying it six months in advance in writing.
Areas of cooperation on youth-related matters include youth exchanges, youth organisation representatives, and government officials in charge of youth-oriented policy making.
The Prime Minister said, "Tributes to Mahatma Phule on his Jayanti.
His important and untiring efforts for social reform helped the marginalized people a lot.
Germany ranks seventh among countries investing in India.
On the Citizenship Bill, the Prime Minister urged people not to be misled by rumours regarding the Citizenship Bill.
The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone for the construction of a six-lane bridge over the Brahmaputra River.
For this reason, the Indian Ocean occupies a special place in the policies of the government.
He said India believes that the world is one family and hence fulfills its global responsibilities.
The countries of the world want to work together with India on the path of peace and stability.
The Prime Minister exchanged views with the members of the delegation on the bilateral partnership and other issues of mutual interest.
Most of these complaints were related to poor quality of service, connectivity of landline connections, and inefficiency.
Reviewing the progress of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban), the Prime Minister stressed the Union Government's commitment to provide housing for all by 2022.
He also asked senior officers of the Central Government to review the progress on a weekly basis.
An increase in maternity leave is a welcome provision.
Measures undertaken by Nordic countries also included clean technologies, maritime solutions, port modernization, food processing, health, life sciences, and agriculture.
He announced to continue efforts for more clean energy systems, renewable energy, fuel, energy efficiency, and production of more clean energy.
The Prime Ministers agreed that a strong partnership can contribute to accelerating innovation, economic growth, long-term solutions, and mutually beneficial trade and capital investments.
Mr. Hawking's death is tragic.
Accordingly, the government has started training about one lakh beggars.
The resolution of public grievances of 17 sectors was also reviewed.
In the 23rd meeting today, the Prime Minister reviewed the progress towards redressal and handling of consumer complaints.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that the Archaeological Survey of India has done remarkable work over the last 150 years.
The Prime Minister stressed the importance of taking pride in our history and our rich archaeological heritage.
He said people should show enthusiasm in learning about local history and the archaeology of their towns, cities and regions.
The Prime Minister further said that India should showcase its great heritage to the world with pride and confidence.
The South Asia Satellite tells us that when it comes to regional cooperation among like-minded countries, we can also establish closer ties in space.
"Subhasthasbakavikas" can be a lighthouse for cooperation and operations in South Asia.
Bilateral relations between India and Russia are driven by a broad understanding of mutual interests and are leveraging partnerships in almost all areas of bilateral cooperation.
Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister assured that development is the best answer to all forms of violence.
He also informed about the benefits of other development works that were inaugurated on this day.
He also informed about the benefits received through Jan Dhan Yojana, Mudra Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, Crop Insurance Scheme and Saubhagya Yojana in the state.
Shri Narendra Modi said that the Forest Rights Act is being strictly implemented keeping in mind the interest of the tribal people.
But it's good that the rainy season is moving on its time.
Rainfall in many parts of the country has made the season pleasant.
Now the Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath is celebrated in some parts of the world.
People celebrated the holy month of Ramzan with devotion.
Now it is the festival of Eid.
Uttarakhand and Haryana have also been declared ODF this week.
I express my special thanks to the administration, governance and people of these five states for completing this task.
We have to further strengthen this heritage.
From the water to the mountain, people welcomed the sun's rays in the morning itself through yoga.
Almost all the countries of the world have made this opportunity of yoga their own.
Everyone was involved, including UN officials, diplomats from all over the world...
This time again, yoga has also worked as a world record.
About 55 thousand people have set a new world record by performing yoga together in Ahmedabad, Gujarat.
Our soldiers also did yoga in Siachen where the temperature is minus 20, 25, 40 degrees.
A few days ago I had the opportunity to attend my favorite event.
Due to the absence of middlemen, the item is very cheap.
A few days ago, we all must remember that ISRO successfully launched 'GSAT-19'.
As you all know, when we successfully placed in orbit for the 'Mars Mission', the entire mission was for a period of six months.
There is no dearth of talent in the country.
If children in our family are also interested in sports, they should be given a chance to play.
Everyone should have a dream for the next Olympics.
The Prime Minister said, "Today Jan Dhan Yojana completes three years.
I congratulate the crores of people, especially the poor, who have benefited from this initiative.
Jan Dhan Kranti is a historic initiative to bring the poor, downtrodden and backward classes into the financial mainstream.
Through Jan Dhan Yojana, social security schemes, Mudra and Stand-Up India, we have given wings to millions of aspirants to progress.
He said that the development works being inaugurated today are good signs for the cooperative sector.
He said that the Amul brand is famous all over the world and has become a source of inspiration all over the world.
He said that Amul is not just about milk processing but it is the best model of empowerment.
I assure that the Government of India is committed to provide all necessary support for all the efforts of the state to tackle all these diseases.
I am happy to visit this great country once again.
I always find it useful to connect with you.
I have visited Japan several times.
In fact, my personal connection with Japan's leadership, government, industry, and people goes back almost a decade.
The people of Japan have led the world in sustainable development.
There is also a deep sense of social responsibility and ethical behaviour among the citizens here.
We are also aware of Japan's immense contribution to the development process in other countries of the world, especially in the countries of Asia and Africa.
India's core values are rooted in our cultural heritage.
He draws inspiration from the teachings of Gautama Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi.
It draws its wings from our democratic traditions, emphasizes the creation of both wealth and value, has an entrepreneurial spirit, and is keen to modernize and enrich its economy.
Our present encourages us to work shoulder to shoulder.
I often say that this 21st century is Asia's century.
India is going through many major changes.
We have taken decisive steps and put in place an administrative mechanism that will help India realise its true potential.
The results are visible.
In 2015, the Indian economy grew faster than any other major economy in the world.
The World Bank and IMF expect growth to remain at the same rate.
Factors such as low cost of labour, large domestic market, and extended economic stability collectively make India an extremely attractive place to invest.
In the last two financial years, we have received about $55 billion in foreign direct investment (FDI).
This is the highest ever FDI inflow and also the highest ever growth in FDI in India.
No wonder Japan is now the fourth-largest investor in India in terms of FDI.
We want more investment from Japan to India.
India's developmental needs are vast and significant.
All of these offers offer unprecedented opportunities for Japan's industry.
A good combination of Made in India and Made in Japan has started functioning and has shown excellent effectiveness.
Japanese companies make cars in India, which are being sold in Japan.
I would like to congratulate and thank the companies and people involved in a wide variety of economic activities in India.
To those who are looking for an opportunity to invest in India, I assure you that we are committed to further improving our policies and processes to promote Make in India.
Creating an enabling environment to attract businesses and investments is my priority.
Stable, simple, and transparent policies are redefining the ways of doing business in India.
We have established commercial courts and commercial divisions, so that commercial disputes are settled expeditiously.
Arbitration procedures will now be carried out faster, as the arbitration law has also been amended.
We have changed our foreign direct investment (FDI) related policies in June this year.
We have also announced a new Intellectual Property Rights policy.
All these things will lead to a new direction of economic reform.
Japan's participation in our huge projects like Dedicated Freight Corridors, Delhi, Mumbai Industrial Corridors, Metro Rail and High Speed Rail is significant in scale and speed.
As I said earlier, the combination of your hardware and our software is proving to be a perfect combination.
This will benefit both countries.
Let us support each other more and join hands to strengthen each other further.
Our goal is to build a relationship that reflects our shared priorities and establishes a strong bond between our people.
I agree that efficiency in the use of water and resources, water conservation and its purification, and increased agricultural productivity are key aspects of our bilateral relationship.
The role of this strong partnership will drive the flow of trade and investment between our two countries.
Tomorrow, I will visit Haifa to pay homage to our brave Indian soldiers.
The delegation strongly supported the Prime Minister's vision of making India a five trillion dollar economy in the future.
The Prime Minister said that the Indian entertainment industry is very famous all over the world.
He added that it is one of the key components of India's emerging soft power status globally.
The situation in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu over the sharing of Cauvery river water is indeed alarming.
He stressed that the government is committed to the well-being of the elderly.
The Prime Minister said, "Congratulations to Donald Trump on assuming office as the President of the USA.
The India-USA strategic partnership is built on our shared values and common interests.
It is the 24th channel run by Doordarshan.
This will facilitate students interested in cinema from the northeastern state.
The Prime Minister will also inaugurate the upgraded Tezu Airport in Arunachal Pradesh.
Tezu Airport has been designed in an innovative way for commercial operations under the UDAN scheme.
50 Health and Wellness Centres will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister.
Health and wellness centres are an important part of the Ayushman Bharat scheme to ensure holistic health.
100% household electrification will also be announced in Arunachal Pradesh under the Pradhan Mantri Saubhagya Yojana.
Prime Minister in Assam
From Itanagar, the Prime Minister will return to Guwahati.
The grid is part of the government's plan to provide cheap and quality gas to the entire northeast.
City gas distribution ensures supply of clean fuel (PNG) to households, industries, and commercial units.
The Prime Minister will also inaugurate the Hollong Modular Gas Processing Plant at Tinsukia in Assam.
Once inaugurated, the facility will supply 15 per cent of the total gas produced in Assam.
The line will promote Tripura as the gateway to South and Southeast Asia.
President Xi and I will exchange views on issues of bilateral and global importance.
On 26th January, our Republic Day was celebrated by all of us with zeal and enthusiasm in every corner of the country.
I hope that at every level, at all times, duties should be given as much importance as rights.
On 30th January, all of us pay homage to the martyrs who laid down their lives for the country by observing a 2-minute silence at 11 am.
As a society, as a country, a 2-minute tribute at 11 o'clock on 30 January should be an instinct.
Even if it is not 2 minutes, it should also express solidarity, resolve and faith in the martyrs.
In our country, there is an innate respect for the army and the security forces.
On the eve of this Republic Day, I extend my best wishes to the bravehearts who have been honoured with various gallantry awards and to their families.
When we get to know about his courage, valour, and valour in depth, we are also surprised, proud and inspired.
My young friends, you know very well that I am constantly doing 'Mann Ki Baat'.
January-February-March-April, all these months are testing months for every family.
The exam itself should be a joyous occasion.
It should be a festival of zeal and enthusiasm that has worked hard throughout the year, which now is the time to show.
Change will come as soon as you see it.
In fact, from Kanyakumari to Kashmir, from Kutch to Kamrup, and from Amreli to Arunachal Pradesh, these three-four months are examinations.
And that is why the biggest medicine for memory recall, if any, is relaxation.
Sometimes it even feels like we can't see the exam from the right perspective.
It seems to be a question of life and death.
The exam you are going to take is a test of what you have studied throughout the year.
It's not a test of your life.
So, I would like to know your thoughts on this present direction of education and its future.
Life runs on the sense of mission you've got, your sense of ambition, whether there's a match between your mission and ambition.
And that is why this load of qualities sometimes stops us from moving in the right direction.
But if something outside of what you tried your hand at, came up, came up with a question outside of the questions you had prepared, you would go down the drain.
If you keep knowledge at the center, you try to incorporate many things into yourself.
Truly, competition doesn't come in handy for life to go on.
He says that the role of parents in the examination is very important.
You're right.
This causes short-cut roads to duplicate what they are.
Well, young friends, you are preparing for the exam and I am sitting with you in mind.
Maybe, these words of mine today will also work as a light for you. But at the same time, I will also say, do not let what I have said become a burden.
Go ahead with this mantra.
Dear countrymen, February 2017 marks the completion of forty years of the Indian Coast Guard.
On this occasion, I thank all the officers and men of the Coast Guard for their service to the nation.
Vidya is considered an occasion for worship.
Best wishes to my countrymen on this holy festival of Vasant Panchami.
My dear countrymen, in "Mann Ki Baat," the All India Radio also always fills new forms with its imagination.
Since last month, he has started delivering "Mann Ki Baat" in regional languages immediately after I finished "Mann Ki Baat."
It has received widespread acceptance.
People are writing letters from far and wide.
Etiquette for consultations between the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of External Affairs for a period up to the year 2019-2023
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation and the National Institution for Transforming India (NITI Aayog)
An exhibition on futuristic technologies and space exploration, which will provide a vision for the future of space travel.
Jayalalithaa ji's connect with the citizens, her efforts for the welfare of the poor, women and the underprivileged will always be a source of inspiration.
Tamil Nadu is grieving and my thoughts and prayers are with them in this hour of grief.
This is an irreparable loss, but may Almighty God give them the strength and fortitude to bear this grief.
The Prime Minister recalled his meeting with him in May 2018.
The Prime Minister also conveyed his best wishes to His Excellency Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohamad, Prime Minister of Malaysia.
The Prime Minister assured him of India's full and constructive support in carrying out his new responsibility.
b) The IP / TRR ratio and debt / GSDP ratio specified in the State Finance Account of 2014-15 shall be relevant for determining the eligibility of the State for 2016-17.
Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister said that innovation plays a major role in bringing the people of India and Israel closer together.
The Prime Minister talked about cooperation between India and Israel for innovation in areas such as food, water, health, and energy.
The Prime Minister said, "My condolences to the families of those who lost their lives due to the derailment of the Jagdalpur-Bhubaneswar Express.
My prayers for the speedy recovery of those injured in the train accident.
The Prime Minister, on his own behalf and on behalf of the people of India, expressed deep sorrow at the loss of hundreds of lives due to the recent earthquake and tsunami in the Sulawesi region of Indonesia.
President Widodo thanked the Prime Minister for his reassurance and readiness to assist.
There are reports of concern due to heavy rains in some places.
One Thai Navy jawan also lost his life in the entire operation.
A few days ago, Neeraj ji, the beloved poet of our country, took leave of us.
One has to step out of the house for the first time, leave the village, get out of a protective environment and become one's own companion.
So many young people leave their homes for the first time to take their lives in a new direction.
He has successfully passed the MBBS examination of AIIMS Jodhpur, in his first attempt.
His father feeds his family by weaving garbage.
I congratulate them on their success.
It read, "Two young men make Modi's dream come true." When I read inside, I saw how our youth today are trying to transform the lives of ordinary people by using technology smartly and creatively.
May appealed to him to change the brain drain to brain gain.
There is a mantra that society can fight against superstition.
Lokmanya Tilak was full of courage and self-confidence.
He had the power and intelligence to show the British rulers a mirror of their mistakes.
Public Ganesh Utsav became an influential medium to carry forward the traditional faith and gaiety as well as the spirit of social awareness, collectiveness, harmony and equality among the people.
Over time, the popularity of these schemes grew.
This shows the craze of our youth towards our ancient heritage and our heroic leaders of history.
Just a few days ago, India's brave daughter and Kisanputri Hima Das created history by winning the gold medal in the 400 meters race at the Junior U-20 World Athletics Championships held in Finland.
Ekta has won gold and bronze medals at the World Para Athletics Grand Prix 2018 in Tunisia.
His achievement is special because he has also made his challenge the medium of his success.
Captain Nishad's efforts for the progress of Bihar are noteworthy.
His work for the empowerment of the poor will always be remembered.