I hope that on this occasion, the delegates from abroad will also take some time to see the history and magnificence of Delhi.
We are proud to be the global host of World Environment Day 2018. 
We are committed to raising the standard of living of our people.
This has helped rural women to escape the plight of toxic smoking.
We are giving a big boost to the production of renewable energy.
We are already the world's fifth largest producer of solar energy.
India is the world's sixth largest producer of renewable energy.
We are a young nation.
In the last two years, we have seen a two per cent increase in the coverage of trees and forests there.
We have also done well in the conservation of wildlife. 
Therefore, the continuous availability of water is essential for agriculture.
Our principle is to produce more crops per unit of water.
On the occasion of World Environment Day, it has been decided to take up an important challenge this year. 
Plastic has now become a challenging pollution for human life. 
Plastic pollution has now entered our food chain.
Now, microplastics have entered our sweet, bottled water and tap water.
In India, per capita consumption of plastic is much lower than in many developed countries. 
I hope that all these will continue to provide an example in controlling plastic pollution. 
The choice we make today will determine the collective future of all of us.
All these are currently travelling to different parts of India under the Vatan Ko Jano Initiative.
In consultation with them, the Prime Minister spoke about the efforts being made to improve connectivity and infrastructure in the state. 
The International Congress of the Sauvashtra Patel Cultural Society is being held in California, USA this year. 
The Prime Minister praised the efforts of the Indian diaspora, especially the Patel community of Saurashtra, and said that the Indian diaspora has always made India proud. 
He said that the efforts of the Indian travellers have ensured respect for Indian passports everywhere in the world.
The Prime Minister said that various government schemes like Swachh Bharat have given a boost to the tourism sector in the country. 
He urged the Indian community to encourage at least five foreign families to visit India every year.
The Prime Minister said that India will begin celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on October 2.
The tough measures taken on GST and corruption have helped people to do business with integrity. 
He said that as a result of these programmes, India has climbed 42 places in the ease of doing business ranking in the last 4 years.
The Prime Minister will today inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development projects in Kutch. 
He has sacrificed his life in service to the country.
In this hour of grief, my condolences and those of every Indian are with their families.
At present, the country has expectations, a sense of achievement, it is also natural.
Our armed forces have been given complete freedom.
We have complete confidence in the bravery of our soldiers, in their bravery.
130 crore Hindus will respond to every kind of conspiracy, every kind of attack.
Our heroic martyrs have given their lives.
He urged the people of Pakistan to fight against corruption and counterfeit notes against their rulers.
The Prime Minister said that the Union Government will do everything possible to provide adequate water to the farmers. 
He added that India's water would not be available to Pakistan. 
The Prime Minister tweeted that the Union Government has assured the State Government of Bihar of all possible assistance to alleviate the flood situation and is closely monitoring the situation. 
The Prime Minister said that my thoughts are with the people affected by floods in various parts of Bihar. 
The situation is being continuously monitored.
The Union Government has assured the Bihar Government of all possible assistance to alleviate the flood situation. 
He also appreciated the people of Kashi for the warm welcome of French President Emmanuel Macron. 
He said that there are plenty of opportunities for tourism in Varanasi and every effort should be made to keep the city clean.
The Prime Minister further said that the recently announced Ayushman Bharat Yojana is transforming the health sector. 
It will provide high quality health services to the poor.
I would like to begin by expressing my condolences on the loss of livestock in the recent earthquake in Akeh. 
You are the leader of a great nation.
As the country with the largest Muslim population in the world, Indonesia has provided an example of democracy, diversity and social harmony. 
All these values are underpinned for a democratic nation.
The Joint Declaration on Maritime Cooperation is the agenda of our partnership in this field.
Our partnership will also play an important role in preventing terrorism, organised crime, drugs and human trafficking. 
The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) on mutual cooperation.
Addressing the audience, the Prime Minister said that organizing such a progress fair plays an important role in paving the way for New India. 
He said that scientists and farmers need to work together to transform agriculture.
The Prime Minister particularly mentioned the Meghalaya state which has received the award for achievements in agriculture during the review period. 
The Prime Minister appreciated the hard work and passion of our farmers for achieving achievements in agriculture since the time of independence.
He said that the objective of the government is to double the income of the farmers and make their lives easier.
Talking about the progress towards this goal, the Prime Minister said that 11 crore Soil Health Cards have been distributed so far.
The 100 per cent low coating of urea has also been effective in increasing productivity and reducing the cost of fertilizers. 
He said that the premium has been reduced through the Prime Minister's crop insurance scheme, the maximum limit on insurance has been abolished and the amount to be paid to farmers has also been increased.
He further said that the Prime Minister's Agricultural Irrigation Scheme has envisaged water supply to every farm.
He said that Kisan Prapada Yojana will help strengthen the supply chain from the farm to the market and build up modern infrastructure in agriculture. 
He said that the recently announced operations will be beneficial for farmers who produce green fruits and vegetables, especially tomatoes, peas and bates.
He said that the Union Government has decided that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for all the proposed crops will be one and a half times the original price of the crop.
The Prime Minister also stressed the importance of the Farmers Producers Union. 
He said that the Agricultural Science Centres (KVK) will play an important part in this.
The Prime Minister said that the Government is working to ensure that sufficient agricultural credit is available. 
Honorable Speaker, on behalf of the House, on behalf of the people of the country, I extend my congratulations and wish you all the best.
Today, 11 August is associated with an important date in history.
He added that aspects such as human mentality and behavioural mentality should be part of training. 
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress made in implementing the scheme for setting up new medical colleges related to existing district/referral hospitals. 
The Prime Minister said that it was very saddening to see the loss of life and damage caused by the tsunami after the volcanic eruption in Indonesia.
India has fulfilled its promise with the successful launch of South Asia Satellite.
With this launch of satellites, we have started a journey to take our partnership to new heights.
Space technology will enhance the quality of life of our people in our region. 
I will meet President Sirisena, Prime Minister Vikram Singh and other eminent dignitaries.
The Prime Minister said that he was deeply saddened by the tragic accident in Itah district of Yupina.
This was the fourth interaction of the Prime Minister with various beneficiaries of governmental schemes through video bridge.
The Prime Minister further said that sufficient capital, enterprises and people are essential to the success of any startup sector. 
Start-ups are exempt from income tax for three years.
Six labour laws and three environmental laws have been amended so that young entrepreneurs only need to become self-certified. 
Children from various Atal Tinkering Labs shared their innovative research with the Prime Minister. 
The Prime Minister congratulated the schoolchildren on their scientific skills and encouraged them to come up with new innovations.
He worked hard to ensure the progress of Delhi, especially in the field of infrastructure.
He had established himself as a hardworking and people-friendly administrator in both Delhi and the Union Government.
He did incredible work for the service of refugees in Delhi after the partition.
He said, "Welcome to the people of the state on the special occasion of the founding day of the Meghalaya.
The people of Meghalaya have made a significant contribution to the country.
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi paid homage to Lord Birsha Mundana on his birth anniversary.
This app has also proved to be beneficial for businessmen.
The Prime Minister said that cooperation from Germany is expected in the field of sports and in particular in the field of football. 
He said that Germany's innovation will give a new impetus to the field of innovation and cooperation with Indian youth in the field of start-ups.
Responding to the climate change talks, the Prime Minister said that India has been engaged in the work of nurturing and preserving natural resources for a long time. 
At this stage, the Prime Minister also mentioned the Government of India's target to generate 175 Gigawatts of electricity from renewable sources by 2022. 
Emphasizing the need to protect and preserve nature, the Prime Minister said that it is unethical and criminal to harm the welfare of future generations.
In this way, a joint statement covering all global issues was also issued.
The Prime Minister said that Pakyong Airport will facilitate connectivity to Sikkim. 
He said that this airport is part of the Udan scheme to ensure that the general public also uses this airport.
The Prime Minister said that emphasis is placed on rapidly enhancing infrastructure in the North-East region and increasing connectivity with the rest of the country. 
These include the provision of a framework and an environment conducive to understanding each other's strengths, markets, technologies, policies, etc. 
The MoU will provide a framework framework and will also help to build scientific cooperation between research and development and education institutions of India and Canada.
Research and development projects will focus on driving social change by providing alternatives through the use of science and technology.
The areas for mutual cooperation are the secure and balanced infrastructure construction and integrated water management. 
In 1817 a pica revolt was held in Odisha against the British rule. 
The Chair on Pika Rebellion was set up at the Ukal University in Bhubaneswar.
He laid the foundation stone of the pipeline and road project.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that the total value of these various projects that have been inaugurated and laid the foundation stone is over Rs 14,000 crore.
He said that the objective of the Union Government is to develop East India as an entry point for South-East Asia. 
The Prime Minister said that the IIT Bhubaneswar will boost industrial development in Odisha and improve the quality of life of people by working for technology.
The Prime Minister mentioned plans to enhance the healthcare infrastructure, road network and oil and gas pipeline infrastructure in the state. 
My dear countrymen, you all are greeted.
On World Toilet Day, we are committed to improving sanitation in our country.
I congratulate all the individuals and organizations working for the construction of toilets in different parts of India.
He added that the Quit India Movement started in 1942 and was a decisive movement. 
To describe the mood prevailing in the people at the time, the Prime Minister quoted the writer Ramvṛks Bānipuri and the poet Sohanlal Dwivedi.
Uttarakhand has been a major centre of yoga for many decades.
These mountains here are the inspiration for yoga and Ayurveda.
But when a common citizen comes up to this earth, he has a different kind of day experience.
There is a wonderful scent in this sacred space, there is a spark, there is a sensation.
From Dehradun to Dublin, from Shanghai to Chicago, from Jakarta to Johannesburg, yoga is yoga.
Whether it is thousands of feet high mountains in the Himalayas or a desert in the desert, yoga enriches every life in every situation.
This is the difference between life and yoga.
It works.
In today's part-dodied life, yoga connects mind, body, and mind and soul and brings peace to a person's life.
Joining a person with a family brings happiness in the family.
It brings goodwill to society by making families sensitive to society.
But if we don't have confidence in our power, our capabilities, nobody will accept.
It is not possible if the family in the family will always reject the child and expect that the people of the street will respect the child.
Friends, Yoga has shown the world the way to health from disease.
This is why yoga is gaining acceptance so rapidly around the world.
If we practice Asan and Pranaayam regularly, we can avoid many diseases along with good health.
Regular yoga has a direct impact on the medical expenses of any family.
It is our responsibility to further develop the understanding of yoga for a healthy and happy humanity.
The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its prior approval to the MoU on Cooperation in the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space between India and Afghanistan. 
The projects reviewed today included the construction of four new Ems in Delhi, Mumbai Industrial Corridor and Mangalgiri in Andhra Pradesh, Kalyani in West Bengal, Nagpur in Maharashtra and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.
The Prime Minister also reviewed the progress of the Smart Cities Mission. 
He praised the efforts of cities to participate in the Challenge Route. 
My very best wishes to the countrymen on this holy festival of Ramanvami.
I once again wish you all the best of Ramanavmi.
My dear countrymen, as every time this time I have received all your letters, e-mails, phone calls and comments in very large numbers.
I would also urge the listeners of the 'Mann Ki Baat' who work in Sanskrit to consider what can be done in the context of the suggestion of Komalji.
It has the power to change the weather of the whole country.
My dear countrymen, the coming months are very important for our farmer brothers and sisters.
This is why many letters have come about agriculture.
Dr. Rammonohar Lohia spoke of greater public awareness to ensure better income, better irrigation facilities for our farmers and to increase food and milk production on a large scale.
I went to the Agricultural Unhanty Fair held in Delhi in the last days.
He showed that when the goal is set, the determination is fulfilled and the resolution is in the mind, it can be achieved, it can be shown.
Brothers and sisters, in this year's budget, a big decision has been taken to bring the farmers the right price of crops.
This means that such a system is being created to connect any market in the country directly with the farmers.
To be healthy, hygiene is the first requirement.
Yoga, fitness and wellness both guarantee.
Over the past three International Yoga Days, people from all over the country and the world have participated with great enthusiasm.
My dear countrymen, I am not a yoga teacher.
The Government of India and the insurance company will jointly spend Rs 5 lakh a year on the treatment of about 10 crore families, i.e. about 50 crore citizens under the Aayushman Bharat Yojana.
New AIIMSs are being set up in different states to provide better treatment and health facilities to people across the country.
A new medical college will be opened between each of the three districts.
Today, the Mudra Yojana, Start Up India, Stand Up India initiatives are giving birth to our young innovators, young entrepreneurs.
Under this, various programmes will be implemented on rural development, poor welfare and social justice across India.
I urge all of you to take part in this campaign with enthusiasm. 
The day of the birth of Lord Mahavira is a day to remember his departure and his Tappasya.
Three, he expressed his desire for the private sector to become a partner in the gas sector distribution.
Speaking about technology, he appealed for assistance in high pressure and high temperature technology applications, which are for commercial research of natural gas. 
Emphasizing the importance of food processing, the Prime Minister said that the lack of infrastructure is causing huge losses to the agricultural sector. 
The Prime Minister said that today is the day after Diwali, the new year of Gujarati people begins.
He said that the awards also show the priority of the government. 
This MoU will help the NIPAM Academy to share some of its skills in the management of training institutions for higher education services in the country.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, has expressed his condolences on the passing of the Kalyanar Karunanidhi. 
The Prime Minister said that congratulations to Shri M. Vaikaya Naidu Garuru for being elected as the Vice President of India.
Today, I remember the opportunity to work with M. Vayankaya Garu in the party and government.
He asked the Urban Development Ministry to monitor this operation with sensitivity.
Their courage and patriotism have protected our country.
The meeting was attended by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, other senior ministers as well as top officials of the State Government, Disaster Management Institutions and the Prime Minister's Office.
Addressing the media at the Ahmedabad airport, the Prime Minister said that heavy rain has been falling in Gujarat for the past few weeks.
The Prime Minister lauded the State Government and other agencies that have been operating in a complete state so far. 
He announced immediate assistance of more than Rs. 500 crore under the SDRF. 
He expressed confidence that the people and Gujarat will emerge stronger and will successfully face the challenges of floods.
The Prime Minister congratulated and welcomed all the participating teams in the FIFA U-17 World Cup. 
The Prime Minister said, "Welcome and greetings to all the teams participating in the FIFA U-17 World Cup. 
He recalled the occasion of the "Mann Ki Baat" in December, 2017 when Lok Parliament was held in the districts.
He added that this kind of parliament will increase the spirit of discussion among our youth.
He added that Swami Vivekananda had raised his voice against social ills.
The Prime Minister added that our young generation will never be misled. 
The Prime Minister said that it is the youth of India who have taken the Swachh Bharat campaign to new heights.
He added that India is the land of the Saints who served the society and breathed the wind of reform. 
The Prime Minister said that service is an integral part of our culture.
The MoU was signed on 25 September 2018.
The Prime Minister said that I salute Loknaik Jayaprakash Narayan on his birth anniversary.
(b) To establish a higher-level post of the Comptroller General of Communications Accounts (CGCA). 
On the occasion, the Prime Minister said that banking services through the Indian Post Payments Bank will reach people in remote areas of the country and therein, as well as they will get access to various bank services easily. 
At the event, the Prime Minister recalled that earlier, the Union Government had launched Jan-Dhan Yojana to establish financial inclusion. 
He said that the IPPB launched today is another initiative to achieve this objective.
The Prime Minister said that post offices have long held a respectable place in villages and have reached every home in villages.
He said that despite the development of modern technology, the trust in the postman remains unbroken.
Today, they have smartphones and digital devices to provide financial services.
He said that India is now the fastest growing economy in the world and is also becoming a country that is rapidly eradicating poverty.
The Prime Minister will also address a public meeting. 
The first woman in the meeting congratulated the Prime Minister for receiving the Seoul Peace Prize.
The Prime Minister said that this honour is in the true sense of Indian culture, Indian tradition and all Indians.
First 100 percent of the city is literate and the first 100 percent of the district is literate.
Kerala is the first state to achieve 100% primary education.
Also some of the oldest colleges, schools and libraries in the country are also in Kerala.
I believe that the aspects of reading and information work should not be sufficiently limited. 
The organisation aims to reach 300 million disadvantaged people by 2022. 
The main objective of this campaign is to promote reading as a means of growth and prosperity. 
Reading enlarges the mindset of the person, gives him wings, makes him vast.
A well-read citizen community will help India to rise to the top of the world. 
When I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I started the Gujarat campaign with this spirit.
The aim of this campaign was to turn the young generation towards reading.
I had appealed to people to give books instead of giving presents.
From the Upanishad era to the present, wise men have been respected in society.
We are living in an information age.
Today, knowledge, information and information are still a vital tool.
I want to see this kind of reading and library campaign across the country.
The objective of the campaign should not be limited to giving people a witness. 
The campaign should achieve real goals of bringing about social and economic change. 
From the foundation of knowledge, the best structure of society should be created.
I am delighted to know that the State Government has declared June 19th as Reading Day.
Certainly, many efforts will be coordinated to make this popular activity. 
The Government of India also supports the activities of the Foundation. 
I have been informed that in the last two years, about Rs 1.20 crore has been given to the Foundation.
It has the capacity to build the best society and country.
Atal Janna's extraordinary leadership laid the foundation for a strong, prosperous and inclusive India in the 21st century.
Its long-term policies in various fields have touched the lives of every citizen of India.
The death of Atal Ji has left me with a personal and irreparable loss.
I have countless memories with them.
They were an inspiration to workers like me.
The Miju-Kaman will be included.
The Idhu (Mishmi) and the Theron (Digarou Mishmi) will be included. 
Momba, Memba, Sartaang, Sજોlong, (Migi) will be included in the order No.9 instead of 'Momba'. 
I am tired and saddened by his passing.
A total of 26 islands have been made available for full development.
The Prime Minister also congratulated all those involved in this remarkable achievement.
On the occasion, the Prime Minister said that it is really important that the junior-most and senior-most officials spend so much time communicating with each other. 
He urged all the officials to expedite the adoption of Government e-Marketplace (GEM) in their respective departments.
He said that this would remove the mediation and save the government.
This was the seventh conversation between the Prime Minister and various beneficiaries of government schemes through video conferencing. 
Today I have had the opportunity to launch a new Chartered Accountancy Course curriculum, to launch it. 
This is the identification of the reliability of your Dynamic Course and Exam.
I hope that the new curriculum will enhance the financial skills of new people who are entering this profession. 
New laws have been made, the old laws have been made stricter.
Swiss banks have reported that the amount deposited by Indians has reached a record low. 
I know how much damage a political party can do by taking action against black money, by cancelling fake companies.
But someone has to make this kind of decision for the country.
According to an estimate, there are over two crore graduates of engineering and management in our country.
There are over 8 lakh doctors.
For this, you all have to take tough measures.
So a case decision is taking years to come.
Today we cannot forget that without these great men, the history of the country is incomplete.
The most important role in this historical period is the Chartered Accountants.
All Chartered Accountants have a common link to the Government of taxpayers and companies.
The elderly person who invests his pension money in the mutual fund is ruined.
Chartered Accountants can start their career in a new field by becoming insolvency practitioners.
This is a new path that the government has opened for all of you.
You've never had such a chance in your life.
Don't let this opportunity go to waste, friends.
This is the largest geological collection unit in the country.
The complete self-managed and State of the Art Coastal Installation project will ensure the safety of petroleum products for Andhra Pradesh.
The Union Government has decided to celebrate 7th March 2019 as JANOUSHIDI DAY across India to spread awareness and promote the use of generic medicines.
Talking to the beneficiaries and store owners spread across more than 5000 locations, the Prime Minister said that the government had taken two important steps to ensure that high-quality medicines are available at low cost.
First, the cost of 850 essential medicines was controlled and the cost of equipment for heart stent and knee surgery was reduced. 
Secondly, a series of JANU-USHITI centers were opened across the country.
The Prime Minister said that these measures have benefited not only the poor but also the middle class.
The Prime Minister noted that the medicines are available at JAUs at a price of 50 to 90 per cent less than the market price.
Discussing the concept of sweeping change in the health sector, the Prime Minister said that the approach of the government is not just to talk but to provide solutions. 
He said that we are working together with all stakeholders to bring about change in the health sector. 
During the conversation with the Prime Minister, the beneficiaries expressed their appreciation for the high quality medicines available at the JANOUSHIDI Centres.
The two sides discussed the imposition of a ban on the district court in the meeting.
While the Prime Minister acknowledged the cultural significance of Jhalikattu, he noted that the matter was pending in the court.
The Union Government has assured all the measures taken by the State Government of its support. 
The second edition of the Global Initiative on Conflict Prevention and Environmental Awareness is being held in Yangon today and tomorrow.
The Prime Minister said that if humans do not feed nature, nature will react as a climate change. 
The Prime Minister said that the 21st century world is interconnected and interdependent. 
Guruji are highly respected in our society.
India has developed as a centre for start-ups and innovation. 
Indian youth have distinguished themselves by their long-standing vision and the idea of doing something new. 
I would especially urge young friends to join the discussion tomorrow.
This will increase the spread and spread of Indian traditional medicine in Colombia.
ASIA has carried out several major defence operations in various Asian countries.
This is the second bilateral visit of Prime Minister Modi to Germany.
The Government of India praised the agenda of economic reforms, including the issue of GST.
The leaders reviewed regional and global issues. 
Prime Minister Modi stressed the importance of community in the European Union and its importance as a necessary factor for world stability. 
Congratulations to Tejaswini Sawant, who won the gold medal in the women's 50m rifle 3 position competition.
The Prime Minister said on the occasion that the program of Assistant Secretaries provides opportunities for junior and senior officials (Knight and Senior) to meet and discuss various issues. 
The Prime Minister encouraged the Assistant Secretaries to learn the best lessons from their experiences in the future in the various ministries. 
The Prime Minister encouraged the officers to develop contacts with those who work with them and those they meet during their duties. 
He told the officials that it is important to develop close relations with the people to succeed in tasks and objectives.
Prime Minister Modi extended his greetings for the progress and prosperity of the friendly people of Malaysia.
He said that close and mutually beneficial India-Malaysia relations are based on strong foundations of mutual values, interests and vibrant people-to-people relations.
He praised the dedication to education and made it a life-long mantra.
He said that a teacher is bound to the stream of knowledge for life.
During the conversation, the Prime Minister urged the community to unite with the award winners and make them an integral part of the smooth development. 
He encouraged teachers to bring about digital transformation in their school and surrounding environment.
Talking to the Prime Minister, the award winners shared inspiring stories about transforming their schools into centers of excellence and learning. 
The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of the Northern Regional Centre Campus of Indian Institute of Mass Communication in Jammu by launching an opportunity to build it.
The beauty of this is a collection of written verses.
The programme was a mass exhibition of the songs of the Saundriya Lhari.
On the occasion, the Prime Minister said that they feel a special energy from the divine atmosphere created by the collective mantra. 
He said that Adi Shankar had established religious-spiritual unity throughout India through Vedas and Upanishads.
The Prime Minister said that the ordinary man can connect the Adhi Shankar Rishit beauty hall with himself. 
The Prime Minister said that Adi Shankar had adopted the best practices from various think tanks and ideas. 
The Prime Minister said that every Indian is proud of the successful launch of the V-Fire.
This will increase the strength of our strategic defence.
Several Union Ministers and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, met and interacted with more than 80 authorised secretaries and a group of joint secretaries working in the Government of India on Wednesday. 
Five such meetings are to be held, of which this is the fourth. 
It reflects the rich historical heritage of the people of India and the ASEAN countries have come together.
My government's Act East policy is at the heart of our engagement.
We have good political and people-to-people relations with each other and with each country in ASEAN.
The number of new taxpayers filing income tax returns has doubled.
We have used technology to reach people.
36 White industries do not need to obtain environmental approval. 
Today, the company is formed in just one day.
Today we are an international economy.
In addition, several major reforms have achieved these successes in recent years. 
In July this year, we have implemented a very complex task of transitioning to a common goods and services tax (GST) for the entire country.
This has been implemented across India by removing a large number of taxes at the regional and central levels.
In one year, 197 bank accounts were opened.
This year, by August, 290 million accounts of this type have been opened in Indian banks.
More than 146 million people directly receive cooking gas assistance in their bank accounts.
Currently, the government is using direct benefit transfer for 59 different schemes.
We want to build land, sea and air connections in this dynamic area.
International tourism from India to other countries of the world is increasing rapidly.
On 15 August 2017, they held a triangulation at Khardong La in Ladakh. 
The Prime Minister also unveiled the Mission Work Planning - Narmada Stream for the Narmada River.
Referring to the people and farmers of Gujarat and Maharashtra who have benefited from the Narmada River, the Prime Minister thanked the Madhya Pradesh Government and the people for the Narmada Service Journey. 
In this context, Prime Minister Modi mentioned the International Solar Alliance and the joint efforts of India and France on this issue.
The Prime Minister called the Paris Agreement a shared heritage agreement for the whole world and called the contribution of this generation a promise for future generations of mankind.
He said that it is our joint responsibility to live the Mother Earth.
The Prime Minister said that the two leaders also discussed how to combat terrorism and extremism.
We started the process of giving full membership to India at the SCO meeting held in Tashkent last year.
The MoU was signed on 6 January 2017 in New Delhi.
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will address the fifth Indian Science Congress after becoming Prime Minister, to further his vision to promote the spirit of science, technology and innovation across the country.
I am also looking forward to interacting with the Indian community in Portugal during this visit.
Sonnatha has over 20 lakh followers on social media. 
All the citizens of this country wish you very much on this holy day.
I would like to mention the hard work of the brave soldiers of the NDRF.
He has done a very good job in these times of crisis.
The capacity of the NDRF has become a new centre of faith for every Indian, through their commitment and their commitment to take immediate decisions to handle the situation.
The kind of love, faith and sorrow that has sprung up for Atalji across the country reflects his vast personality.
The best aspects of Atalji have been passed on to the country in the last few days.
This change has brought about two important changes in Indian politics.
First, the cabinet size in the states was reduced to 15 per cent of the total seats in the assembly.
Atalji was a true patriot.
During his tenure, the time of presenting the budget changed. 
In 2001, the time for presenting the budget was changed from five o'clock in the evening to 11 o'clock in the morning.
This has given more and more Indians the opportunity to wave their national flag.
In this way, he brought our dearly loved Tirananga closer to the people.
After the election process and the defects in the people's representatives are eliminated, you are seeing that the discussion is going on in the country about holding the Union and the States elections together.
People are expressing their views on both sides.
I pay tribute to અટલજી on behalf of all of you, on the resolve to fulfill the dream of a prosperous and developed India.
You will be pleased to know that the productivity of the Lok Sabha was 118 per cent and the Rajya Sabha was 74 per cent.
This fourth session of Parliament will always be remembered as a session of social justice and youth welfare.
Several important bills were passed during this session that will benefit the youth and backward classes.
No member of society can tolerate any kind of injustice against the female power of the country.
This law will play an effective role in preventing cases of crimes against women and girls.
In the fourth session, we have all presented an example together.
I would like to congratulate all the players who have won the medal for the country.
The Prime Minister said that the vision of the ex-Prime Minister Vajpayee is that all the states are progressing rapidly.
The Prime Minister said that the work to build the toilet was carried out as a campaign.
This will enable more residential and commercial complexes to be built in the area.
In this regard, he also recalled the meeting with the High Commissioner of India in Sri Lanka this morning.
IPPB will provide various services such as savings and current accounts, money transfer, direct benefit transfer (DBT), bill and utility payments and enterprise and merchant payments.
Addressing a public meeting in Ahmedabad, the Prime Minister spoke in detail about the aspirations and willpower of New India. 
He congratulated the people of India on the occasion and said that the bullet train project will provide speed and progress and will get results quickly.
He said the government's focus is on increasing productivity through high-speed connections. 
The Prime Minister thanked Japan for its technical and financial assistance to India for this project. 
He appreciated the fact that the project was launched in such a short period of time by Prime Minister Abe.
The Prime Minister said that this high-speed railway will bring people living hundreds of kilometers away together with the two cities.
He said that a new economic system is developing alongside the Mumbai-Amdabad corridor and the entire area will become an economic zone.
The Prime Minister said that technology is useful only if it provides benefits to the common citizen. 
He said that the high-speed corridor will be a rapidly growing area in the future.
He expressed confidence that everyone will work together to complete the project in the shortest possible time.
Earlier, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had said that the India-Japan Partnership is special, strategic and global. 
He also unveiled a roadmap for the development of tribes for the next five years.
I am going to visit Janakpur and Muktinath along with Kathmandu.
Both these places attract a large number of pilgrims every year.
They are living witnesses of the ancient and strong cultural and religious ties between the people of India and Nepal. 
I am going to meet political leaders and friends in Nepal. 
He said that 50 countries' navies took part in the review of the International Shipping Fleet conducted by the Indian Navy in 2016.
He said that our armed forces are conducting an average of 10 major joint exercises with allied forces every year.
He said that Indian Armed Forces and our international partnership are responsible for a major reduction in piracy in the Indian Ocean.
The Prime Minister said that besides the National War Memorial, a National Police Memorial has also been established.
The Union Government has given dignified honours to great national leaders including Sardar Patel, Babasaheb Ambedkar and Netaji Subhaschandra Bose.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today, on the occasion of an event at Sindri, laid the foundation stone of several projects of the Government of India and the Government of Jharkhand. 
They include:
You people will remember well that a team of six women commanders of the Navy were on a sea voyage for the last several months.
A sense of adventure who doesn't know.
I would like to congratulate the people of Chandrampur school, my young colleagues, from the heart.
Recently, a 16-year-old Shiwangiri teacher, became the youngest Indian woman to climb Everest from Nepal. 
I would like to congratulate Betty Shiwangin.
Ajit Bajaj and his daughter, Dia Everest Sir Karana became the first Indian father-son couple.
Today, everyone is participating in this campaign of Fit India.
The same game is known by different names in different places.
The game was played in almost every state.
On this Environment Day, we all think about whether we can do something to keep our planet clean and green.
In many parts of the country, our soldiers and farmers have committed themselves to show their bravery against injustice.
Sadly, for a long time, we have called the events of 1857 simply an uprising or a military uprising.
In fact, this event was seen as a neglect, but it was also an attempt to undermine our self-esteem.
He was the same VIR SAVARKAR who wrote that what happened in 1857 was not a revolt but the first struggle for independence.
India House heroes in London, including Savarkar, celebrated its 50th anniversary with a smoke-dash. 
The daughters of the country are now wearing good clothes besides their own and their family clothes.
She is also doing a course of skill development alongside her.
A small tea seller, you will be surprised to know that more than 70 children are bringing the light of education to their lives.
There will be a series of such inspiring events around you.
There will be unforeseen events.
Let us move forward with positivity.
Apart from the BRICS meetings, there are also plans to hold bilateral talks with the heads of state.
Today, the popularity of solar energy in India is growing rapidly.
The Prime Minister said that Queen Lakshmibai is an inspiration to every Indian.
His courage and firm opposition to institutionalism during adversity will never be forgotten.
It is because of such great people that India has gained its freedom.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, has paid homage to Babu Jagjivan Ram on his birth anniversary.
We will welcome the new year 2017 in a few hours. 
125 crore citizens of India will celebrate the new year with new resolve, new spirit, new spirit, new dreams.
Our country will soon be witness to a historic purity of Yogurt after Diwali.
With the patience and determination of 125 crore countrymen, this purification project will play an important role in shaping the direction of the country for many years to come. 
Generally, when there is a movement to make the future of the country brighter, the government and the people are together.
Your love is a blessing to me.
Now in the new year, efforts will be made to bring banks back to normalcy quickly. 
All responsible persons in the government have been asked to focus on normalizing the banking system.
Do you not think that the movement of honesty needs to be strengthened for the good of the country?
If we are aware, we will be able to prevent our children from going down the path of violence and atrocities. 
They won't be left out.
To achieve this goal, the government is bringing in some new schemes for the country's 125 crore citizens on the eve of the new year.
This year, the Russian crop has increased by 6 per cent compared to last year. 
Now, some more important decisions have been taken in the interest of the farmers.
Now that Kisan credit cards have been converted into Rupees, farmers can buy and sell from anywhere using their own cards.
This decision of the government will give more funding to small shopkeepers, small businesses.
The interest rate on the guarantee will also be low as the cost of the guarantee is borne by the central government.
The government has also asked banks to increase the cash lending limit for small businesses from 20 per cent to 25 per cent. 
In addition, working capital loans on digital transactions have been increased from 20 per cent to 30 per cent.
Last year, about three and a half crore people have benefited from it.
It is now time for all political leaders and political parties to understand the anger of the people by respecting the sentiments of the honest citizens of the country.
It is true that political parties have also made meaningful efforts to reform the system from time to time.
Now it's time to discuss this matter, find a way.
There is always room for positive change in our country.
Now, there is a lot of positive change in society for digital business.
Bhim is India's interface for money.
Some time later, the new year of 2017 will begin.
Today, 100 years ago, in 1917, under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi, the first Satyagraha movement was launched in Champaaran.
The new year is coming with a new wave of resolutions and new successes.
He also greeted the children on the occasion of World Work Janti and said that it is important to teach them different skills.
He encouraged children to study and show interest in sports.
The Prime Minister walked the streets of Varanasi in the evening and assessed the development of the city. 
The Prime Minister said that he strongly condemned the internal attacks in Kabul.
My heart goes out to the families of the victims.
Establishment of aid and health facilities in human resource development. 
Exchanges and training of doctors, officials, other health professionals and experts
To assist in the development of human resources and health services and the establishment of health facilities.
Training of human resources in health for a short period of time
Rules for the exchange of medicines, medical devices and information
Availability of healthcare equipment and pharmaceutical products
Training and research of food industry managers
To inform and inform the citizens on the practices of sanitation and food security and healthy eating.
Other areas of cooperation according to mutual decision
The Prime Minister spoke to the people of Kavarti and Kanyakumari during the day.
The people here gave detailed information about the difficulties and difficulties that they had encountered due to the cyclone.
The Prime Minister said that the Union Government will support the states affected by the cyclone through the relief package. 
• The Union Government will provide immediate financial assistance of Rs 325 crore to meet the needs of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Lakshadweep. 
• The financial assistance announced by the Prime Minister today is Rs 280 crore to Tamil Nadu and Rs 76 crore to Kerala, which was distributed to both States/Central Territories immediately after the cyclone hit.
• Insurance companies have also been instructed to pay compensation claims for the people affected by the cyclone on an immediate basis. 
The Prime Minister will inaugurate the newly built Madan Mohan Malvia Cancer Centre at the University of Bunanaras. 
The hospital will provide cancer patients in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttarakhand and neighbouring countries of Nepal with full and fair care.
The Prime Minister will also inaugurate the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital Lehratar.
With the opening of both cancer hospitals in Varanasi, the city has become an important centre for quality treatment of cancer and other cancer-related diseases.
The Prime Minister will also unveil the first new Bhabhatron Precision Technology (Multi Leaf Colimeter). 
He will distribute certificates among the beneficiaries of various schemes.
They will also distribute aid devices to the disadvantaged.
We are very pleased to have the opportunity to increase our partnership with the Bank and its members. 
The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank started its financial operations in January 2016.
As developing countries, we are facing similar challenges. 
The investment made by AIIB in sustainable infrastructure development has an impact on the lives of billions of people. 
Institutions like AIIB can play an important role in bringing regional multilateralism into existence.
A good start.
India is one of the largest investment-friendly economies in the world. 
Investors want growth and stability. 
They want a stable politics and a cooperative structure to ensure their investment is protected. 
With large volumes of operation and high profitability, investors also aspire to the size of the local market, skilled employees and good infrastructure. 
India is emerging as an important place for the global economy and is also driving global growth. 
India is currently the third largest country in purchasing power.
India's growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2017 was 7.7 per cent. 
We had anticipated a growth rate of 7.4 percent.
Despite rising oil prices, inflation is within a defined limit. 
The Government is committed to the path of fiscal consolidation.
According to the GDP, the government debt is falling.
India's rating has improved after a long wait.
The external sectors are healthy.
Our foreign exchange rate is more than 400 billion US dollars which provides us with sufficient protection. 
According to the World Investment Report of Anktid, India is currently one of the best places for foreign direct investment in the world. 
From the perspective of foreign investors, India is considered the least risky political economy. 
The Government has taken a number of steps to boost investment. 
This and other such reforms have been noted by the global community.
In the World Bank's 2018 report on ease of doing business, India has climbed 42nd place in the last three years and now India has reached 100 countries in the world. 
There are many possibilities in the size and development of the Indian market.
In the last ten years, India's per capita income has doubled. 
We have over 30 crore middle class customers.
This figure is expected to double in the next ten years. 
The size and needs of India have given an additional economic benefit to the investor. 
For example, the Housing Programme in India aims to create one crore housing units in urban areas.
Therefore, if India tries to use new technologies in building construction, it will bring additional benefits.
Another example of this is the renewable energy programme in India.
We have set a target of 175 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2022. 
More renewable energy has been added to the energy available in 2017. 
We are joining the mainstream through the International Solar Alliance.
A conference on this connection was held in New Delhi earlier this year. 
The Union has set a target of 1000 GW of solar capacity by 2030 with a total investment of 1 trillion USD.
India is working on e-mobility. 
This year we are holding a Global Mobility Conference. 
I hope this will help us move forward.
In India, we are improving connectivity at all levels. 
The purpose of Bharatmala Yojana is to improve road connectivity and for this purpose, National Corridors and Highways are being constructed.
Special freight corridors have been set up to reduce the burden on the railway network.
BharatNet aims to provide internet connectivity to the country to the final mile. 
Our United Payment Interface System or UPI and Bhim App and Rupet Card show the potential of India's digital economy.
More than 100 public service areas are available to the citizens on their mobile phones through Umang app.
Our goal is to provide every poor and homeless person with a building including toilet, water and electricity by 2022. 
We are considering various effective strategies for waste management.
This will benefit 100 million poor and disadvantaged families of insurance of $7,000 annually. 
Our healthcare schemes will also create a large number of jobs.
This will promote the production of high-quality medicines and other medical technology equipment. 
I can see a lot of benefits for investors in this sector. 
India's talk of revival is also touching most of the countries in Asia. 
Now the Indian subcontinent is at the heart of global economic activity.
It has now become the main engine of world development.
Indeed, as many people say, this is the century of Asia.
New India is emerging.
We look forward to continuing our partnership with all other development partners, including the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. 
The BIMSTEC is a natural platform for regional cooperation.
In the survey, 10 questions were as follows:
The Prime Minister informed the Chief Minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayana and officials of the State Government during the meeting on the state of affairs. 
After the review, the Prime Minister announced financial assistance of Rs. 500 crore to the state. 
This is in addition to the announcement of Rs. 100 crore assistance made by the Home Minister on 12.08.2018.
The Prime Minister instructed the insurance companies to hold special camps to assess the losses quickly so that the affected families/beneficiaries can get timely compensation under the social security schemes. 
The request of the State Government to increase the number of human days as per the estimated need of the State will be considered.
Under the Integrated Agriculture Department's campaign, aid will be provided to the farmers for the recovery of damaged agricultural crops. 
The Central Government is continuously monitoring the flood situation in Kerala.
The State Government is being given all possible assistance to cope with all the difficult situations. 
The Prime Minister is in constant contact with the Chief Minister regarding the status of Puri. 
57 NDRF teams have been deployed, with approximately 1300 officers and 435 boats engaged in search and rescue operations.
Five (5) companies of BSF, CISF and RAF have been deployed to carry out relief and rescue operations in the state.
The Prime Minister appreciated the efforts of the State Government to meet the challenges posed by the exceptional situation. 
He thanked Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for his warm welcome and for his hospitality during the visit.
He said that I have been informed that Indian Sufi saint Baba Reid had come to Jerusalem in the 13th century and had meditated in a cave.
The Prime Minister described the relations between India and Israel as traditional, cultural, trustworthy and friendly.
The Prime Minister noted the unprecedented progress and long tradition of courage and martyrdom in Israel in the field of technology. 
He recalled that Indian troops played a vital role in liberating Haifa during the First World War. 
The Prime Minister also informed about the recent reforms undertaken by India. 
He mentioned the biggest economic reforms in the country so far in the field of indirect taxation, implementation of GST, auctioning of natural resources, improvements in the insurance and banking sector, and skills development.
He said that the government aims to double the income of farmers by 2022.
The operation will be completed in a period of 36 months.
Both sides reiterated that India and Russia, with a multicultural, multilingual and multicultural society, have agreed on a common understanding of membership to address the current challenges. 
The two countries have established more contacts than ever before and are contributing to the creation of a wider world. 
Both countries appealed to all countries to work openly in their international relations to reduce global tensions and promote the ideals of tolerance, cooperation, transparency.
The two sides stressed that the main challenges facing most of the world are rapid and environmentally friendly sustained economic development, poverty eradication, reduction of inequalities between the two countries and providing basic health services. 
India and Russia expressed their resolve to cooperate with each other in achieving these goals.
Both sides welcomed the introduction of medical machinery by the Advanced Pharmaceutical Company in Russia.
The Indian party has declared its wish to increase the import of minerals from Russia.
Both sides stressed the importance of enhancing cooperation in the field of aluminium. 
The two sides welcomed the signing of the MoU between the Indian National Small Industry Corporation and the Russian Small and Medium-sized Trade Corporation. 
The Russian side also introduced a framework for the above-mentioned industrial corridors to provide skilled services in taxation coordination with the help of satellite-based technologies aimed at joint projects in India. 
The Russian side expressed interest in the fact that when the Indian Railways Ministry decides on plans to increase the speed of trains, Russia will want to participate in the international competitive bidding process. 
The two sides stressed the importance of cooperation in the field of transport education, personnel training and scientific support for the implementation of the International Transport Corridor. 
For this purpose, the two sides stressed the need to establish cooperation between the National Railway and Transport Institute (WDORA) and the Russian Transport University (MIIT). 
The two sides agreed to convene a ministerial and coordination meeting of the INSTTC on the basis of priority. 
After the scheme is launched, the border tax administration of both countries will be committed to further enhance it.
The two sides appreciated the efforts to strengthen and institutionalize cooperation between the States of India and the Russian regions. 
The two sides reviewed the recent investments made by Indian companies in the diamond industry in the Russian Far East. 
The two sides agreed to explore opportunities for joint cooperation in precious metals, minerals, natural resources, forest products including wood, through joint investment, production, processing and skilled labour. 
The Russian side invited the Indian side to invest in the Far East. 
The Indian Party welcomed the decision to open an office of the Far East Agency in Mumbai. 
The Indian delegation, led by Shri Suresh Prabhupada, Minister of Commerce, Industry and Civil Aviation, participated in the East Economic Forum in September, 2018. 
A high-level Russian delegation will visit India to promote Indian investment in the Far East and organize investment road shows.
Science and technology
The two sides expressed their commitment to maintain mutual support and coordination at various levels, including the BRICS and ITU. 
The two sides expressed their interest in developing mutually beneficial cooperation in the joint scientific research field, including in the Arctic and other sectors. 
Both sides expressed their satisfaction with the long-standing cooperation between Indian and Russian scientists in the Antarctic. 
He urged that all issues related to Iran's nuclear program be resolved peacefully and through dialogue. 
He reiterated the key role of the United Nations, including a high-level political forum on sustainable development, for review and coordination in the global implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
Both sides expressed their commitment to enhance nuclear proliferation at the global level. 
Russia has confirmed on its behalf India's membership in the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
The two sides stressed the importance of maintaining multilateral dialogue on this subject by staying within the framework of the East Asia Summits and other regional fora.
The two sides stressed that the participation of the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi, in the SCO National Presidency Meeting held in Qingdao in June 2018 demonstrates India's successful participation in the organisation's operations as a full-time member.
The two sides agreed to strengthen cultural and human relations under the SCO.
The athletes met the Prime Minister at the Parliament House in New Delhi.
The Prime Minister congratulated the medal-winning athletes for their outstanding contribution at the international level. 
By exchange 
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, expressed his condolences over the loss of life in a bus accident in Mandiya, Karnataka. 
My condolences to the families of the dead.
My participation in this summit demonstrates India's highest priority towards its neighbours and our commitment to closer relations with neighbours in South-East Asia.
He added that Vietnam is an important nation in India's Act East Policy. 
Most of the beneficiaries said that their quality of life has improved significantly. 
They will participate in the programme to celebrate the completion of one year of the state government. 
He will publish a document showing the achievements of the government.
The Prime Minister will address a public meeting in the Dharamshala of Kangra district. 
President Ghani expressed his condolences to the families of the fallen soldiers.
The Swachhata Hi Service campaign launched today aims to promote the participation of a large number of people in the field of cleanliness.
This year marks the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
Last year was the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela and last year was also the silver anniversary of our diplomatic relations.
He was Vice President at that time and I felt his enthusiasm and affection for India during our first visit.
I experienced their wonderful hospitality during the BRICS summit in South Africa last year.
Trade and investment relations between us are growing stronger.
Our bilateral trade is more than 10 billion dollars.
We are also partners in South Africa's skills development efforts. 
If we look at the world's outline, it is clear that India and South Africa are both in very important places in the Indian Ocean.
We are both democratic countries full of diversity.
Our internal cooperation and cooperation at various levels such as the BRICS, G-20, the Indian Ocean Rim Association, the IBSA, is very strong.
We are also working together on reforms of the UN Security Council. 
Not only I, but the whole of India and South Africa are eager to hear the President's thoughts.
The presence of President Ramafosa on the occasion of Republic Day tomorrow and the participation as the chief guest is a sign of our mutual commitment to strengthen our relations. 
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, attended the Cooperation Conference in New Delhi on the occasion of the birth centenary celebrations of Shri Lakshmanrao Naimdar today. 
He said that Shri Enamdar had realized this principle and his life is a source of inspiration.
He said that the Co-operative Movement can play a major role in achieving these objectives.
The Prime Minister stressed the importance of maintaining the environment in the cooperative movement, which has kept rural areas together.
He recalled the Ministry of Shri Inamdar's 'Binasa Sanskar, not Co-operation'.
The Prime Minister said that today the farmers buy at retail but sell at wholesale. 
He said that the cooperative movement has the capacity to solve the problems of the people.
He added that the cooperative movement is in line with the nature of Indian society. 
First of all, I congratulate you all for organizing an international conference on a great topic like consumer security.
This is the first such event in South Asia.
I am also grateful to the UNCTAD, which has taken India's initiative forward with strength and has played an active role in bringing it to this stage. 
It is concerned with consumer protection, which is an important factor in enhancing trade in this sector, making it stronger. 
Friends, it is also a very pleasant thing that the United Nations is coming forward in a cooperative way in this whole process.
Whatever the business, its sole objective should be customer satisfaction.
The capacity of the National Consumer Helpline has been increased fourfold.
Portal and social media related to consumer security have also been integrated. 
Private companies are also joining the portal in large numbers.
A comprehensive effort is continuing to be made to raise awareness among consumers through this campaign.
Friends, in my view and in the view of our government, the boundaries of consumer protection are very wide. 
The Ujjwala Yojana for Clean Energy for the People of the Country, the Swachh Bharat Yojana for Health and Sanitation, the Jan Dhan Yojana for Financial Inclusion, these are many such schemes; they reflect the same sentiments.
By 2022, when India is 75 years old and India is celebrating 75 years of independence, the government is also working on ensuring that every person in the country has his own home by 2022.
Recently, a big step has been taken to bring electricity to every household in the country.
And then the doctors say that just like in mechanical engineering, we change tools, and then they pay a lot of big bills. We arranged for it, we lowered its costs.
Friends, Due to the inflation control, and also because of it, the poor and middle class customers have benefited economically. 
Look at the time when inflation was rising rapidly, 2012-13, 11, 12, 13. If it had grown so rapidly, how expensive would be the daal today, if you accounted for it, any big economist would be surprised how the human being of India eats.
On this occasion, I would like to inform my colleagues from other countries about the GIVE IT UP ATAK scheme.
Through Make in India, we are also inviting global companies to create in India and make better use of the vast human resources here.
Friends, this is the first conference of this kind in this part of the world.
The increase in cross-border transport of people and e-commerce has led to a steady increase in cross-border transport. 
Cooperative structures are also necessary to speed up the process of dealing with customers from other countries. 
This will increase mutual trust and trust is the first condition of trade.
Building infrastructure for communication, exchanging best practices, taking new steps to build capacity and launching joint initiatives are all subjects on which work can be done in the light of mutual interests. 
Friends, our cultural and commercial heritage will be strengthened in the future as well as the emotional relationship between us. 
The Prime Minister also inaugurated the Patangli Research Institute in Haridwar district.
On the occasion, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that we will not neglect or forget our historical heritage. 
He added that the spirit of innovation of our ancestors should be sustained. 
The Prime Minister said that sanitation is one of the most important aspects of preventive healthcare. 
At Bhillai, the Prime Minister will also inaugurate the modern and expanded Bhillai Steel Plant. 
The Prime Minister will inaugurate the air services between Jagdalpur and Raipur.
In addition, he will also address a public meeting.
They will also give green flags to the new Express train from Ayodhya to Rameshwar (via video conferencing). 
The Prime Minister will announce the screenplay of the Green Rameshwaram project.
These are just a few examples.
A teacher asked the Prime Minister what teachers should say to parents who are experiencing stress and expect unrealistic expectations about their children's examinations. 
The Prime Minister said that spiritual institutions in India have centres for social reform. 
He described tourism as India's ancient concept and spiritual tradition.
The MoU will further strengthen bilateral cooperation between the two countries.
The Prime Minister will also dedicate the Western-North Inter-Regional Power Transmission Line, which is being built to ensure the continuous supply of electricity to Western Uttar Pradesh. 
The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of a scheme to provide clean drinking water to all in rural areas of Bundelkhand region through pipelines under the Government scheme to ensure clean drinking water supply.
This scheme is also important in the sense that it will enable water supply to the drought-affected region of Bundelkhand.
The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of a 425-kilometer long railway line at the Zhansi-Maniqpur and Bhimsen-Khairar sections.
This will facilitate the movement of trains and will also help in the full development of the Bundelkhand region.
The Prime Minister explained how his government is focusing on ease of doing business and ease of living of citizens. 
He expressed his joy at the large presence of Japanese companies in India. 
He said that India is now the fastest growing economy.
The Prime Minister stressed the values between India and Japan. 
So that all departments and regions will benefit from it.
Minister Li Driaan informed the Prime Minister on the current status of bilateral defence cooperation. 
He recalled the various measures taken by the Union Government in the last three years, including demonetisation, to combat the black money and corruption. 
The Prime Minister said that after the demonetisation, the government has received large-scale data, which has been examined by three lakh companies in the course of their verification of income tax accounts.
Dr. Abdul Momane informed the Prime Minister of the recent progress in bilateral relations between India and Bangladesh. 
The Prime Minister said that in the last few years, there has been a lot of progress in relations between the two countries.
I am honoured to lead the Council of India as a full member in its first meeting.
It also recommended that the name of the company be removed from the list of registrars after the company has fulfilled the responsibilities of the TSPL.
He praised the officials who facilitated this change.
The Prime Minister said that the conference has become more relevant now, especially in the context of the challenges and responsibilities of the country. 
He said that the new constitution of the Council has improved the quality of discussion.
He appreciated the measures taken to ensure the security of the country.
He said that officials who have often worked in negative environments have come together today to provide leadership.
He said that this conference helps the top police officers to have a more complete understanding of the problems and challenges.
He said that this would help improve the effectiveness of the conference. 
During the visit, the women Khalasi presented various aspects of their campaign, its preparation, training and experiences. 
The Prime Minister congratulated the campaign on its success. 
He inspired them to write and share their thoughts about this extraordinary experience.
Admiral Sunil, the chief of the navy, was also present at the occasion.
While financial assistance worth Rs 2 lakh will be provided to each family of the deceased, Rs 50,000 will be provided to seriously injured persons in flood-affected areas. 
He also gave a visual presentation of the experiences of the beneficiaries of the various schemes of the Government of India and the Government of Rajasthan.
Addressing the large crowd, the Prime Minister said that he saw firsthand how the Rajsthan guest welcomes the guests.
He said that the joy of the beneficiaries seen in today's presentation was felt by all those present.
The Prime Minister spoke in detail about how the Union Government is working for the welfare of the farmers. 
In this way, the national assets will be used in the best national interest.
The management of the remaining part of the land will be in accordance with the guidelines of the Investment and Government Assets Management Department (DIPAM) and the Government Entrepreneurship Department (DPE). 
If a new era of equality in the country's economy had not begun, would this have been possible?
Now some people might say why did you take two years?
Today, foreign investors are making record investments in India. 
I want to assure you that the steps taken by the government will put the country in a new league of development in the coming years.
You will also know that the government has to take many administrative and financial measures in the construction of the highways.
These figures show how the government has taken the role of policy maker and policy implementer out of the policy paralysis.
If we talk about the three years of this government, more than 22 thousand megawatts of renewable energy has been connected to the grid power.
This is a project that shows our commitment to giving housing to the poor, middle class.
In addition, the government is also focusing on how more foreign capital comes to India.
On the occasion, the Prime Minister congratulated the assembly for celebrating Dhanvantari Jayanti as Ayurved Day. 
He congratulated the Ministry of AYUSH for the establishment of the All Indian Institute of Ayurveda.
The Prime Minister stressed that the country cannot progress unless it values and lives up to its history and heritage. 
He added that countries that have forgotten their culture have lost their identity. 
The Prime Minister said that when India was not free, its knowledge and traditions like Yoga and Ayurveda were lost.
He added that Indians forget these traditions and that there were attempts to reduce their trust in them.
He said that over the last three years, more than 65 AYUSH hospitals have been developed.
He added that the Union Government has approved 100 per cent FDI in the healthcare system. 
The Prime Minister said that the Government is focused on providing healthcare to the poor at affordable cost. 
The emphasis is on providing preventive healthcare, at an affordable and convenient cost. 
He said that sanitation is a simple and preventive healthcare system.
He said that the Union Government has built 5 crore toilets in three years.
The Prime Minister said that the objective of setting up new AIIMSs is to provide the poor with the best healthcare facilities. 
He will address farmers, scientists, entrepreneurs, students, government officials and MPs.
Biofuels can help reduce dependence on crude oil imports. 
He had shown a green flag to the 900th coach and the Hamsafer coach in a public meeting.
He also launched, inaugurated or laid the foundation stone of various development projects in Raibareli.
He called the Constitution of India the heart of our democratic state-system.
The Prime Minister said that the Constitution is the protector of our country.
He stressed that we, the people of India, should work to live up to the expectations set forth in our Constitution.
He said that the creative environment should be used to build a new India quickly. 
He said that the Lok Aids can play an important role in reducing the number of cases that are delayed in the judiciary. 
He also suggested several other measures to be improved to ensure that justice is achieved in a timely and easy manner.
The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of the Agreement between India and Ukraine on Cooperation in the Agriculture and Food Industry Sector.
I condemn the violence and appeal to everyone to maintain peace.
The state of law and order is being closely monitored.
He stressed the importance of positive news for a vibrant and prosperous country.
He said that various projects worth Rs 12 lakh crore are progressing rapidly.
He stressed that the operation will follow the laws and regulations.
In this context, he referred to the Bankruptcy and Debt Practices Code.
He told the medal winners that the successes they achieved have increased both the pride and status of India.
He expressed hope that the medal winners will always be humble and not be distracted by their fame and honours.
During the meeting, the Prime Minister urged athletes to use technology as an aid to improve their performance. 
He said that the biggest challenge for medalists is now the Olympics, for which they have to start preparing and they should never forget their goals in this sport.
As an experienced MP, he enriched the parliamentary process.
He was an influential voice of Karnataka's aspirations in Delhi.
My dear countrymen, you are welcome.
I commend the Election Commission for its continuous efforts to strengthen our democracy.
My dear countrymen, today when we are discussing about the Netaji Subhabhashchandra Bose and also in the Man Ki Baat, I want to tell you a story connected to the life of Netaji. 
A visual art museum has also been built in this revolution temple.
Recently, 30 satellites have been launched.
Earlier, he had expressed his condolences over the loss of livestock in forest fires in Portugal. 
No new funding has been approved.
The Prime Minister praised Carter's contribution to strengthening the defence relations between India and the United States.
During his meeting, the Prime Minister also recalled his successful visit to the United States in June this year. 
He reaffirmed India's commitment to a strong and progressive bilateral strategic partnership with the United States.
Defence Minister Carter informed the Prime Minister about the progress made in advancing the agreements and decisions reached between the two countries in June this year. 
The MoU will be another step towards cooperation with Saudi Arabian institutions to attract potential investment in infrastructure in the country. 
In this, the Union Cabinet approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Singapore to establish cooperation in the field of urban planning and development with prior effect. 
The MoU was signed on 31 May 2018. 
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister congratulated all those who have received the Govorovashen Gandhi Peace Prize. 
He noted that these awards are being given at a time when India is celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. 
The Prime Minister expressed his joy that on this occasion, the Bhagavan Bhajan, which was loved by the people of Bhagavan Bhagavan Bhagavan, was represented by artists from around 150 countries.
He said that this shows that even today the world accepts Gandhi's values and ideals.
The Prime Minister also spoke about Mahatma Gandhi's insistence on sanitation.
The Prime Minister mentioned that the independence movement was a people's movement only because of Mahatma Gandhi's far-reaching efforts.
He added that Mahatma Gandhi had brought together the two trends of people's participation and the people's movement.
The loan beneficiary will be provided with interest assistance for loans up to Rs 2 lakh under the scheme. 
The Prime Minister appreciated the close bilateral relations in the fields of investment, urban development, civil aviation and skills development.
The Prime Minister will also inaugurate modern food processing facilities in Anand, including a state-of-the-art chocolate plant. 
The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone for expanding the production facilities of Amul in Anand and Khatrraj.
He will address the audience present on the occasion.
Then the Prime Minister will go to Anzaar.
The Prime Minister will also unveil the opening of 624 government housing projects.
They will witness the e-home entry of 240 beneficiary families.
I especially welcome and thank the 15 allied countries of this edition of Vibrant Gujarat.
Several conventions and discussions have been organized on various subjects.
It is also worth noting that international bilateral cooperation is now not limited to national capitals but also to the capitals of our different states.
As the fastest growing economies in India, our challenges will also increase at all levels.
As we have shown, our numbers are still among the fastest growing economies in the world. 
Major international financial institutions such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) as well as many well-known agencies like the MIDs have also expressed their confidence in India's economic journey.
We have focused on removing the obstacles that prevented us from reaching our full potential. 
India is now among the most open countries in terms of FDI.
The largest sectors of our economy are now open for FDI. 
More than 90% of the approvals are obtained on self-operated routes.
With this approach, our economy is now moving rapidly on the path of development.
Over the last two years, we have been moving towards a system with lower taxes in terms of corporate. 
Other investment programmes such as Digital India and Skill India have received extensive support through our Make in India initiative.
In terms of electricity supply, India is the fifth largest producer of renewable energy in the world.
India is the fourth largest producer of wind energy and the fifth largest producer of solar energy.
We look forward to investing in the next generation of infrastructure including roads, ports, railways, airports, telecommunications, digital networks and energy. 
Rural areas are now 90 per cent connected by road.
We are providing loans to small entrepreneurs without any kind of guarantee or guarantee.
Now electricity is available in every village of our country.
Ayushman Bharat Yojana will provide broad investment opportunities in the health-related infrastructure, manufacturing of medical devices and health services. 
There is a great need for roads, railways and sea roads.
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on Thursday reviewed the progress made in key infrastructure sectors including PMGSY, housing, coal and power. 
During the presentation, the NITI Aayog's CEOs informed that significant progress has been made in several areas.
During the review of the coal sector, the Prime Minister called for renewed efforts towards underground mining and gasification of coal using the latest technology inputs. 
During the meeting, the Prime Minister congratulated President Mirziyev and his delegation in Gujarat.
Congratulations to ISRO on the successful launch of India's heaviest, largest and most advanced communications satellite, GSAT-11. 
The MoU was signed in April 2017.
The MoU shall be applicable for a period of five years.
Any party may cancel it by giving notice six months in advance.
Cooperation in youth-related areas includes youth exchanges, representatives of youth institutions and government officials in charge of youth policy-making. 
He said, "Thanks to the great founder on his birthday.
His important and unremitting efforts for social reform have helped the people of Srinat a lot. 
Germany is ranked seventh among the countries investing in India. 
On the issue of the Citizenship Bill, the Prime Minister urged the people not to be confused by the rumors surrounding the Citizenship Bill.
The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone of the construction of six-lane bridge on the Brahmaputra River.
This is why the Indian Ocean holds a special place in the policies of the Government.
He said that India believes that the world is a family and therefore fulfills its global responsibilities.
The countries of the world want to work face to face with India on the path of peace and stability.
The Prime Minister exchanged views with the members of the delegation on bilateral partnership and other issues of mutual interest. 
Most of the complaints were related to poor quality of service, connectivity of landline connections and non-functioning. 
During the review of progress made in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Sahari), the Prime Minister stressed the commitment of the Centre to provide all with houses by 2022. 
He also asked senior officials of the Union Government to review the progress on a weekly basis.
The increase in maternity leave is a welcome provision.
The measures undertaken by the Nordic countries also included clean technology, maritime settlement, modernization of ports, food processing, health, life sciences and agriculture.
He announced continued efforts to create a cleaner energy system, renewable energy, fuel, energy efficiency and cleaner energy. 
The Prime Ministers agreed that strong partnerships can be of assistance in promoting innovation, economic growth, long-term solutions and mutually beneficial trade and capital investment. 
Mr. Hawking's passing is sad.
According to the government, about one lakh children have been trained.
The resolution of public complaints in 17 sectors was also reviewed. 
At the 23rd meeting today, the Prime Minister reviewed the progress made in the management and resolution of complaints related to customers. 
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that the Archaeological Survey of India has done a remarkable job in the last 150 years. 
The Prime Minister stressed the importance of taking pride in our history and rich archaeological heritage. 
He said that people should be enthusiastic about learning about local history and the archaeology of their towns, cities and regions.
The Prime Minister further said that India should show its great heritage to the world with pride and confidence. 
South Asia Satellite tells us that when it comes to regional cooperation between like-minded countries, we can also establish close ties in space. 
The Union's efforts to promote the development of the South Asian economy can be a milestone in cooperation and operations in South Asia.
The bilateral relations between India and Russia are motivated by a broad understanding of mutual interests and are taking advantage of the partnership in almost all areas of bilateral cooperation. 
Addressing the audience, the Prime Minister stressed that development is the best answer to all forms of violence.
He also outlined the benefits of other development projects that were launched on this day.
He also informed about the benefits received by Jan Dhan Yojana, Mudra Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, PAK Insurance Yojana and Sauvagya Yojana in the state.
Shri Narendra Modi said that the Forest Rights Act is being implemented with strictness in view of the interests of the people of the people.
But it's good that the season is moving ahead on its time.
The rainy season has been a happy one in several parts of the country.
Now in some parts of the world, the Rathyaitra of Lord Jagannathji is celebrated.
The holy month of Ramadan was celebrated with a holy spirit.
Now the festival is over.
This week Uttarakhand and Haryana have also been declared ODF. 
I would like to express my special thanks to the administration, the people and the people of these five states for completing this task.
We must empower this heritage.
From the water to the mountains, people received the sun's rays in the morning through yoga.
Almost all countries of the world have made this occasion of yoga their own.
UN officials, including world diplomats were all involved...
This time once again, yoga has also set a world record. 
In Gujarat, about 55 thousand people in Ahmedabad have joined forces to do yoga and set a new world record. 
Our soldiers also made yoga in Sichuan where the temperature is minus 20, 25, 40 degrees.
A few days ago I had the opportunity to attend my favorite program.
Because of the lack of space between the two, things get very cheap.
A few days ago, we all remember exactly that ISRO successfully launched the GISET-19.
You all know that when we successfully entered orbit for Mars mission, the entire mission was for a period of six months.
There is no shortage of talent in the country.
If our children are interested in sports in our family, we should give them the opportunity to play. 
Now, for the Olympics, we must serve each other's dreams.
The Prime Minister said that today the Jan Dhan Yojana has completed three years.
I congratulate the millions of people, especially the poor, who have benefited from this initiative.
The Jan Dhan Revolution is a historic initiative to bring the poor, disadvantaged and backward classes into the financial mainstream. 
Through Jan Dhan Yojana, Social Security Yojana, Mudra and Stand-up India, we have given millions of aspirants the wings to progress.
He said that the development works being inaugurated today are good indicators for the co-operative sector.
He said that the Amul brand is well known worldwide and has become an inspiration to the whole world.
He said that the Amul is not just about the process of milk production but is the best model of empowerment.
I assure you that the Government of India is committed to providing all necessary assistance to the State for all efforts to meet these diseases. 
I am glad to visit this great country once again.
I always find the connection with you useful.
I have visited Japan several times.
In fact, my personal relationship with the Japanese leadership, government, industry and people is almost a decade old. 
The Japanese people have taken the lead in sustainable development.
There is also a deep sense of social responsibility and ethical behaviour among citizens.
We are also aware of Japan's great contribution to the development process in other countries of the world, especially in Asia and Africa. 
The roots of India's original values are in our cultural heritage.
He is inspired by the teachings of Gautama Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi.
It draws its wings from our democratic traditions, emphasizes the creation of both wealth and value, has a passion for entrepreneurship and is keen to modernize and enrich its economy.
Our present encourages us to work together.
I repeatedly say that this 21st century is the century of Asia.
India is going through many major changes.
We have taken decisive steps and have set up an administrative system that will help India realize its true potential. 
The results are obvious.
In 2015, the Indian economy grew faster than other major economies in the world.
The World Bank and the IMF have expressed their expectation that growth will continue at this rate. 
Low labour costs, large domestic market and expanded economic stability together make India an extremely attractive place to invest. 
In the last two financial years, we have received about 55 billion USD of FDI. 
This is the highest FDI to date and also the highest growth in FDI in India so far. 
It is no wonder that Japan is currently the fourth largest investor in India in terms of FDI. 
We want more investment from Japan in India. 
India's development needs are vast and significant.
All these offers offer unprecedented opportunities for the Japanese industry. 
The Goodwill Partnership between Made in India and Made in Japan has started its operation and has shown its excellent effectiveness. 
Japanese companies manufacture cars in India, which are being sold in Japan. 
I would like to congratulate and thank the companies and people involved in various economic activities in India.
I can assure those who are looking for an opportunity to invest in India that we are committed to improving our policies and processes to promote Make in India. 
Creating an environment that is capable of attracting businesses and investments is my priority. 
Stable, easy and transparent policies are redefining the ways of doing business in India. 
We have set up commercial courts and commercial departments to ensure that commercial disputes are resolved quickly.
Now the process of litigation will be carried out rapidly, as the law on litigation has also been improved. 
We have changed our policies related to FDI in June this year. 
We have also announced a new Intellectual Property Rights Policy.
All these things will lead to a new direction of economic reform.
Japan's participation in our large projects such as the Dedicated Freight Corridors, Delhi, Mumbai Industrial Corridor, Metro Rail and High Speed Rail is important in scale and speed. 
I have already said that the union of your hardware and our software is being verified.
This will benefit both countries.
Let us support each other more and join hands to strengthen each other.
Our goal is to build a relationship that reflects our shared priorities and establishes a strong relationship among our people.
I agree that efficiency in water and equipment use, water conservation and sanitation and increase in agricultural productivity are key issues in our bilateral relations.
This strong partnership will boost the flow of trade and investment between our two countries.
Tomorrow I am going to Haifana to pay tribute to our brave Indian soldiers.
The delegation strongly supported the Prime Minister's vision to make India a five trillion dollar economy in the future. 
The Prime Minister said that the Indian entertainment industry is very well known all over the world.
He added that it is one of the key components of India's emerging soft power states globally. 
The situation in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu regarding the water sharing of the Kaveri River is truly worrying.
He emphasized that the Government is committed to the welfare of the elderly.
The Prime Minister said, congratulations to Donald Trump on taking up his post as President of the United States. 
The strategic partnership between India and the United States is based on shared values and common interests.
This is the 24th channel operated by Remotion.
This will facilitate students interested in cinema in the North Eastern State. 
The Prime Minister will also inaugurate the upgraded Tezu Airport in Arunachal Pradesh. 
The airport has been redesigned for commercial operation under the Udan scheme.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate 50 health and welfare centres.
Health and Welfare Centres are an important part of Ayushman Bharat Yojana to ensure complete health.
The electrification of 100 per cent of households in Arunachal Pradesh will also be announced under the Prime Minister's Sowabagy Yojana. 
Prime Minister in Assam
The Prime Minister will return from Itangar to Guwahati.
The grid is part of the government's plan to provide cheap and quality gas to the whole of the North-East. 
The City Gas Distribution ensures the supply of clean fuel (PNG) to homes, industries and commercial units. 
The Prime Minister will also inaugurate the Holong Modular Gas Processing Plant at Tinsukhia in Assam. 
Once it is inaugurated, this facility will provide 15 per cent of the total gas produced in Assam.
This line will promote Tripura as a major gateway to South and Southeast Asia.
President Xi and I will exchange views on important issues of bilateral and global importance. 
On 26 January, we all celebrated our Republic Day with enthusiasm and enthusiasm in every corner of the country.
I hope that at every level, at every time, as much importance should be given to rights, as much importance should be given to duties.
On January 30, we pay tribute to the martyrs who gave their lives for the country by keeping a silence of 11 o'clock at 2 minutes.
As a society, as a country, a two-minute tribute at 11 a.m. on January 30 should be a common sentiment.
Not only two minutes, but also a moment of collective solidarity, resolve and faith in the martyrs.
There is a deep respect for the army, security forces in our country.
On the eve of this Republic Day, I wish the brave soldiers and their families who were honoured with the various awards.
When we know deeply about his courage, bravery and bravery, we are surprised, proud and inspired.
My young companions, you know very well that I am constantly doing this.
January-February March-April, these are all months of testing for each family.
The exam itself should be a joyful occasion.
The last year has been hard, which now is the time to show, that this festival should be of such enthusiasm and enthusiasm.
I'll see the change in the future.
The fact is that from the Kanya Kumari to Kashmir, from Kutch to Kamrup to Amarelli to Arunachal Pradesh, these are three to four monthly exams.
And that's why the biggest remedy to remember memory is relaxation.
Sometimes it seems that we cannot see the exam in the real perspective.
It seems he knows it's a life-and-death question.
The exam you are going to give is the same exam you are going to take the rest of the year.
It's not your life test.
So I would like to know your thoughts regarding this current direction of education and its future.
Life depends on the sense of mission you have gained, the sense of ambition you have, whether there is a match between your mission and ambition.
And that is why the weight of these qualities sometimes prevents us from going in the right direction.
But if something outside of what you tried to do came up, the questions you prepared, the questions outside of what you tried to do came down, you'll fall down a cliff.
If you keep knowledge at the center, you try to include many things in yourself.
Indeed, competition does not come to work for life to move forward.
He said that the role of the guardians in the examination is very important.
Your story is true.
This makes for a reason to copy what is on the shortcut roads.
All right, young friends, you are preparing for the exam and I am sitting with you in my mind.
It may be that these things which I speak today will be a light work for you, but at the same time I will also say, let not what I have said become a burden.
Take this mantra forward and move forward.
Dear countrymen, February 2017 marks the 40th anniversary of the Indian Coast Guard.
On this occasion, I thank all the officers and soldiers of the Coast Guard for their service to the nation.
The occasion of the worship of the students is celebrated.
I wish my countrymen the best on this holy festival of Vasakant Panchami.
My dear countrymen, the sky is always changing with its imagination.
Since last month, he has started to speak my mind in regional languages immediately after completing my talk. 
It has received widespread acceptance.
People from far away are writing letters.
Discussion on the conduct of courtship between the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of External Affairs for the period 2019-2023.
MoU between the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation and the National Institute for Transforming India (NITI Aayog) 
Exhibition on future technologies and space research, which will revamp the vision of the future of space tourism. 
Jayalalithaaji's engagement with the citizens, efforts for the welfare of the poor, women and the disadvantaged will always be an inspiration. 
Tamil Nadu is in mourning and my thoughts and prayers are with them in this hour of grief.
This is an unrealizable loss, but Almighty God gives him the strength and the courage to endure this pain.
The Prime Minister recalled his visit to them in May 2018. 
The Prime Minister also extended his greetings to the Prime Minister of Malaysia, His Excellency Dr. Mahathir Mohamad.
The Prime Minister assured them of India's full and constructive support in carrying out their new responsibilities.
b) The IP/TRR ratio and the loan/GSDP ratio shown in the State Finance Accounts for 2014-15 shall be relevant to determine the eligibility of the State for 2016-17. 
Addressing the audience, the Prime Minister said that innovation plays a major role in bringing the people of India and Israel closer together. 
The Prime Minister spoke about the establishment of cooperation between India and Israel for innovation in the fields of food, water, health and energy. 
The Prime Minister said that he expressed his condolences to the families of those who lost their lives due to the collapse of the Jagdalpur-Bhuvaneswar Express.
I pray that the injured in the train accident will recover quickly.
The Prime Minister expressed deep condolences on behalf of himself and the people of India over the recent earthquake and tsunami in Sulawesi region of Indonesia, which claimed the lives of hundreds of citizens.
President Widodo thanked the Prime Minister for his reassurance and willingness to help.
There are reports of concern due to overcrowding in some places.
In this entire process, a Thai naval officer also lost his life. 
A few days ago, our country's beloved poet Neerajji took a break from us.
For the first time, you have to leave your home, leave your village, get out of a protective environment and become your own partner.
So many young people have to leave their home for the first time to lead their lives in a new direction.
He has successfully passed MBBS examination at Jodhpur AIIMS.
His father takes the waste away and cares for his family.
I congratulate them on their success.
It read, "Both youths have fulfilled Modi's dream. When you read inside, you saw how today our youth are trying to change the life of the common man by using technology smartly and creatively.
I appealed to them to change the brain drain into brain gains.
The mantra is that society can fight against the blind faith.
Lokmanya was full of courage and confidence.
The power and wisdom of showing the British rulers the mirror of their faults was in them.
The public Ganesh festival became an influential medium to promote social awareness, collectivity, sense of harmony and equality among the people along with traditional beliefs and traditions. 
Over time, the popularity of these plans has increased. 
It shows how crazy this young generation is for our ancient heritage and our brave leaders of history.
Just a few days ago, India's brave daughter and peasant daughter Hima Dasse made history by winning the gold medal in the 400-meter race at the Junior Under-20 World Athletics Championships held in Finland. 
The United Nations has won gold and bronze medals in the World Para Athletics Grand Prix 2018 in Tunisia. 
His achievement is special because he has made his challenge the medium of his work.
The efforts of Captain Nishad for the progress of Bihar are noteworthy.
His efforts to empower the poor will always be remembered.